# Sentence templates by canonical field, extracted from 526 GPTZero-verified-human reviewer JSONs.
# Source: review_corpus/source/ + processed/human_reviews.json
# Total unique sentences: 8999


========== SUMMARY (1888) ==========
This work studies the problem that whether LLM can serve to evaluate free-text reasoning explanations.
First of all this work constructs a dataset with 3.5k examples, and by conduction experiments on this dataset, this paper reveals that the inter-annotator agreement is decreased when LLM-generated ratings are used to replace human ratings.
More fine-grained results conclude that while LLMs can provide ratings moderately consistent with an average crowdworker, but they are not reliable enough for complete replacement.
This paper proposes latent causal probing, a new probing framework that leverages latent causal structure to design auxiliary tasks.
In particular, the task is to assess whether the language model has learned to represent the latent variables of the structural causal model (SCM).
A method is proposed to disentangle the causal effects using the causal mediation analysis framework.
Theoretical justifications are provided, and empirical results also support the claims of the paper.
Overall, the proposed idea is novel, and the paper is well motivated and clearly written.
The paper introduces AutoGen, an open-source framework that enables multiple LLM-based agents to collaborate on tasks through role-playing and tool usage.
The framework has gained significant attention from the community since its release.
While the central idea of multi-agent interaction in LLMs aligns with prior work and some earliy frameworks like SocraticAI [1], the authors highlight two novel engineering concepts: "conversable agents" and "conversation programming," which simplify agent configuration and interaction for developers.
AutoGen also unifies other multi-agent LLM frameworks, and the paper demonstrates its wide usability through six application examples, along with quantitative evaluations and comparisons to other methods.
The engineering effort behind AutoGen is commendable, and this open-source framework is a valuable resource for the COLM community.
However, the authors should temper their claims about the absolute superiority of multi-agent methods for problem-solving and discuss the limitations of these methods, such as potential failure modes and comparisons of inference costs.
Additionally, the paper would benefit from a more rigorous validation of the effectiveness and key design factors of multi-agent systems, such as the separation of context among agents and the use of directed graphs versus broadcasting.
There are some controversy surrounding the superiority of multi-agent systems over single agents [2], as well as the potential for agents to be distracted by irrelevant context [3].
While a comprehensive validation of multi-agent superiority may be beyond the scope of this paper, AutoGen provides an efficient platform for conducting comparative experiments to test the effectiveness and key design factors of multi-agent task-solving systems.
The authors should provide more caveats to readers regarding these aspects.
[1] SocraticAI: [2] Huang & Chen et al.
Large Language Models Cannot Self-Correct Reasoning Yet.
ICLR'24 [3] Shi & Chen et al.
Large Language Models Can Be Easily Distracted by Irrelevant Context ICML'23
This paper presents an open-source framework to solve tasks by combining multiple LLMs acting as agents that talk to each other.
It describes necessary features of such a framework, such as being easy to customize (to allow generality) or allowing re-use of modules (to reduce complexity).
The main proposal is the concept of "conversation programming" which implies the definition of a set of agents and the definition the code that controls their interaction.
After the main proposal the paper describes the features of the framework and the applications, which contains various experimental setups.
The paper proposes AutoGen, an open-source framework for constructing Large Language Models (LLMs), characterized by utilizing conversations among multiple agents to build specific applications, also referred to as conversational programming.
In terms of evaluation, the paper covers six different use cases, including mathematical problem-solving and question-answering tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness of AutoGen.
Overall, AutoGen is a promising framework for the rapid, flexible, and customizable development of LLM applications.
This paper proposes an open-source framework that allows developers to build LLM applications by composing multiple agents to converse with each other to accomplish tasks.
AutoGen provides a few default agents with preset behaviors and it also provides users the ability to create flexible agent behaviors and conversation patterns for different applications using both natural language and code.
Autogen and their preset agents are tested in multiple applications covering various knowledge domains.
Results show that autogen’s performance is always better than single LLM methods.
Experiment results show the proposed method is effective, outperforming SOTA methods for both text-guided and unconditional molecule generation.
The paper introduces a diffusion model that generates molecular graphs using textual descriptions of molecules as conditions.
This framework first aligns the representations of molecular graphs and text descriptions.
It then proceeds to train in two phases: an encoder-decoder and a multi-modal latent diffusion model.
This paper proposes a method for text-guided molecule generation.
The method leverages a latent diffusion model to generate latent representations of molecular graphs.
Further, a variational graph autoencoder is employed to decode a molecular graph from the latent representation.
For text-guided generation, an LLM encoder is trained to align with the graph encoder by cross-modal contrastive learning.
The output of the LLM encoder is also incorporated as a condition to control the latent diffusion model.
The paper verifies that the safety awareness of multimodal LLMs (MLLMs) inherited from safety training with textual data is transferable to image inputs, and thus, the MLLMs has safety-awareness against malicious image inputs.
The authors argue that the safety-awareness is weakened due to the modality gap between the continuous image representations and the discrete textual tokens.
This work explores a simple yet effective approach called Constitutional Calibration, which effectively enhances MLLMs’ safety-awareness in a training-free manner.
Extensive experiments demonstrates that the proposed approach not only enhances safety awareness, but also preserves the MLLM’s original capabilities.
This paper explores whether LLMs retain their safety-awareness against malicious image inputs.
The authors observe that LLMs’ safety awareness could be enhanced by providing an additional guideline explicitly stating the safety requirement.
Therefore, the authors explore amplifying the impact of the safety prompt and calibrate the output distribution by Constitutional Calibration for MLLM.
The paper regards the implementation and evaluation of a symbolic language to communicate with a large language model.
The translation of the natural language query or instruction to its symbolic form is done manually by the user.
The results are compared with those obtained with zero-shot chain-of-thought prompting and with few-shot chain-of-thought prompting where the prompts are also manually drafted but are in natural language.
The work proposed the new in-context learning method called Chain of Symbol (CoS) which utilizes symbolic representations for spatial relation objects rather than natural language representations.
They claim the proposed technique is more effective and reliable than commonly used CoT techniques.
They prove the claim using four tasks involving spatial understanding of various dimensions (1D, 2D, and 3D spatial relations) with closed-source and open-source LLMs.
The results indicate that CoS completely outperformed in performance and resources on all tasks.
This paper proposes to use abstract chain-of-thought prompts that simply use symbols, rather than natural language.
This results in notable improvements across a variety of planning and spatial reasoning tasks.
This seems like a useful insight that will improve applications of language models, and is also somewhat conceptually interesting.
This paper studies error recovery in chain of thought, focusing mainly on GPT-4.
When errors are introduced in its CoT generations, what kind of errors is it more likely to correct, and is it likely to correct them silently or point out the prior mistake?
The paper presents the results of several experiments, varying the location & propagation of the error in the explanation, the magnitude of the error, and features in the input that may indicate to the LM an increased likelihood of errors.
The study is interesting and reasonable.
The results should be heavily contingent on the way the model is trained in RLHF — it's easy to imagine small differences in the annotation methodology (i.e., do you train it to correct mistakes, and do you train it to point out such corrections?
Think analogs of scheduled sampling, or whether perturbed/mistaken inputs are sampled during RLHF annotation) having big effects on the results.
So I don't know how the results will generalize per se.
However, the paper's point about faithful versus unfaithful recoveries is a good one, and seems interesting and relevant to study.
Having this evaluation out there as a benchmark on frontier LMs seems pretty reasonable too, though requiring human annotation does make the situation a bit more difficult.
The paper investigates the faithfulness of error recovery behaviors in large language models (LLMs) during Chain of Thought reasoning.
The authors analyze the factors that influence error recovery, such as the amount of evidence for the correct answer and the magnitude of the error.
They also examine the impact of prior expectations on error recovery.
The study finds that error recovery is influenced by these factors and that there is a dissociation between faithful and unfaithful error recoveries.
This paper introduces ScenarioNL, an AI system that creates scenario programs from natural language in police crash reports.
It uses a Probabilistic Programming Language called Scenic to handle uncertainties about the scenarios.
The system, which combines LLMs, prompting strategies, a compiler, and a simulator, has been tested on autonomous vehicle crash reports from California.
This paper describes a system to generate a 3D animated scene of vehicle accidents from written descriptions.
The processing pipeline take a description as input, passes it to a large large language model that generates a program to control the CARLA visualization system that produces the animation.
The authors collected a corpus of accident narratives that they classified according to their interpretation difficulty.
Given a text input, the authors used a LLM and a sequence of prompting strategies to identify the actors in the text, infer some unknown conditions like the weather if not described in the text, and generate the code to create the scene and animate the actors.
The authors used an SQL-like LLM language to create this code from a set of constraints on the actors.
Finally, the code serves as input to the CARLA API to produce the animation.
The authors evaluated their system on the easy part of their dataset with a few metrics, but not the final visualization
Due to the scarcity of real-world recorded car crash videos and sensor data, there is a heavy demand for simulation-based data.
This paper proposes to use LLMs to generate Scenic programs based on natural language descriptions from car crash reports.
These programs can then be simulated and used to train more robust autonomous driving systems.
They combine many prompt engineering techniques and propose ScenarioNL that achieves 90% program syntactic correctness and gets high human ratings (4.3 out of 5 on average).
In this paper, it proposes a new method for dynamically conduct multi-agent collaboration.
In incorporates the team operation process and task solving process, which can improve the performance of agent collaborations.
The experiments have shown the effectiveness of this method.
The whole framework includes two stages: "Team Optimization", which identifies and excludes underperforming agents, and "Task solving" performing inference based on the T-FFNs.
The author conducted experiments on DyLAN across four tasks: Code Generation, Decision Making, General Reasoning, and Arithmetic Reasoning, comparing it with several previous SOTA methods.
DyLAN not only improves performance but also keeps API calls at a relatively low level.
To demonstrate the effectiveness of DyLAN, the author conducted lots of experiments and discussions.
However, many important findings were included in the appendix.
Personally, I believe some crucial discussions such as C.2 and C.8 should be included in the main paper.
This paper introduces an approach called DyLAN that incorporates a two-stage paradigm: i) Team Optimization, the temporal feed-forward neural network (T-FFN) that selects most contributary agents for the given task and ii) Task solving, the T-FFN facilitate agents to communicate with each others to solve a bunch of a diverse of tasks.
To further enhance the efficiency, DyLAN uses early stopping mechanism to terminate the conversation when most of agents in a single layer agree to have a consistent answer.
In the experiment section, the DyLAN is proved to outperform with baselines such as LLM-Blender, LLM Devate, ReAct, and Reflexation, etc, on code generation, decision making, and general reasoning, etc, and shows that DyLAN.
The paper investigates the increase in the use of LLM-modified content in academic publications.
In particular, changes in the percentage of LLM-modified content before and after the release of ChatGPT are analyzed from the viewpoints of the fields of papers, submission rates to arXiv, similarity between papers, and length of papers.
The main finding is that the proportion of LLM-modified content in computer science papers was 17.5%, followed by Electrical Engineering and Systems Science at 14.4%, which is higher than that of other fields.
The authors also report that higher levels of LLM revision are associated with papers in which the first author submits preprints more frequently, papers in crowded fields, and papers that are shorter in length.
Thanks to the authors for the hard work on this paper.
The work is well-written and well-argued.
It is a relatively small contribution: just applying an existing algorithm to existing data after validating/training with synthetic + real data.
The analyses are nice, but can be combined into a single, more comprehensive one (I discuss this in more detail below).
In summary, I like this work, but it should be expanded.
The paper curates a data set for probing TRUE and FALSE believes of LLMs and uses this datasets to provide evidence that LLMs of the LLama2 family reveal a clear linear structure separating TRUE from FALSE statements that can be transferred across data sets and can be causally intervened.
The study further tries to correct of general probability and likelihood or other features that may intervene.
This paper considers some of the most intriguing phenomena in the field (grokking, emergence, double descent), which have proven to be interesting yet poorly understood.
The most direct contributions are some interesting findings that arise from systematic exploration of different model and data sizes.
Methodologically, I do not find the paper to make meaningful contributions.
The core ideas has been identified in prior work, and the extension of sweeping systematically over model/data sizes is extremely natural.
This is not to say the paper needs to provide methodological insight to be valuable, just that I don't see it as providing methodological insight.
With respect to rigor, I generally find the decisions and execution reasonably, though I did not interrogate them too deeply.
With respect to findings, I see this as the area where the paper shines.
The figures, and the discussion of them, seem clearly of interest and make progress in advancing our understanding of these fascinating topics.
So, on balance, I generally am positive on the paper, find that it certainly befits COLM, and think it will gain traction as an interesting paper that makes people think and galvanizes further research.
This paper aims to analyze observations regarding training dynamics in neural network-based models (grokking, double descent, emergent abilities) under a unified lens of memorization/generalization competition, following the Varma et al.'s explanation of grokking.
Specifically, the claim is that the interaction between two factors (inverse correlation between scale and critical dataset size for grokking, correlation between scale and memorization capacity) can provide an explanation for all of the aforementioned phenomena.
* Quality: The hypothesis being tested is clearly stated and the experiments conducted to test it seem sound.
* Clarity: The exposition and writing are generally easy to follow, barring a few minor suggestions to improve (see question to authors section for more details).
* Originality: The attempt to tie together the various observations about training and scaling dynamics in recent literature is novel.
However, this is not my direct area of expertise so I haven't been following the relevant literature fully---I am basing my assessment based on the claimed contribution.
* Significance: The work makes a "connecting the dots" type of contribution that can potentially generate a wide range of concrete predictions about training and scaling dynamics of Transformer models.
Generalizability of the findings outside the exact setup (architecture, task) tested is limited, but the hypothesis and predictions laid out are concrete enough that their generalizability can be easily tested under more diverse settings.
This paper presents a unified framework, UniMem, to reformulate most existing long-context modeling works from a perspective of memory augmentation for LLMs.
The paper briefly reviews 4 representative efforts from four memory related dimensions: memory management, writing, reading and injection, in each of which the authors select one model to explain.
After analysis regarding the 4 dimensions, the authors develop a new method, UniMix, to benefit from the best features/advantages from the discussed four dimensions.
Experiments on two different scales of models, tinyLLaMA-1.1b and LLaMA2-7, to discuss the effect of different long-context solutions as well as position interpolation.
This paper focused on extending the context length of large language models.
It firstly reviewed several common existing context modeling approaches in Transformer-based LLMs, including Memory Management, Memory Writing, Memory Reading, and Memory Injection.
Then it proposed an unified framework that reformulates existing long-context methods from the view of Memory augmentation of LLMs.
It also proposed UniMix, an innovative approach that integrates the strengths of these algorithms.
Experimental results show that UniMix achieves superior performance in handling long contexts with significantly lower perplexity than baselines.
**Summary.** In this paper, the author aim to make a systematic review for the existing techniques on long-context LM.
The paper proposes a new framework referred as UniMem, in which four dimensions are introduced for analysis: memory management, memory reading, memory writing, memory injection.
The paper also presents a UniMix where the existing memory reading and writing techniques are combined to handle the long-context.
Finally the paper conducts empirical study based on several long-context language modeling datasets.
This paper summarized the previous representative works of memory-augmented long LLMs and proposed a unified framework to formulate the methodology of these methods.
This paper well resolved the previous issue of incompatible evaluation suites between different method and instead evaluated all methods under the same setting.
Additionally, the comprehensive ablation studies are conducted to find the best design choices for each component in the memory module, and the authors used this best hyperparameter groups to train a best model, UniMix.
This paper proposes a method for generating synthetic data by going through a number of steps such as task description, label-constrained generation, and self-correction.
The authors propose TarGEN, a multi-step dataset generation technique based on CharGPT to generate synthetic labeled datasets that can be used to evaluate the performance of NLP models.
They additionally propose a self-correction module that automatically evaluate the generated labels to ensure the quality of the generated dataset.
To evaluate its performance, TarGEN was used to generate a synthetic SuperGLUE dataset where different NLP models were finetuned on the synthetic SuperGLUE and the original one.
The results showed that models finetuned on the generated SuperGLUE outperformed models trained on the original SuperGLUE.
TarGEN also showed to perform well when compared with other synthetic data generation methods such as Self-Instruct.
This paper proposes a new RLHF framework to address LLM hallucinations by defining a new reward model for model reliability.
It trains LLMs to generate "I don't know" answers to questions outside the model's knowledge boundary.
It conducts empirical experiments on two math question datasets to validate the effectiveness of the proposed method in enhancing LLM reliability.
The proposed method is simple and easy to follow and the evaluation is comprehensive, but the result analysis seems to suggest that the proposed method is sacrificing accuracy to improve model reliability.
This paper addresses the problem of LLMs providing incorrect answers to questions.
The idea is that in some cases it is preferable that the LLM refuses to answer the question, rather than confidentally outputting a wrong answer.
The paper proposes RLKF (reinforcement learning from knowledge feedback) which consists of generating appropriate ranking data using the LLM, and then tuning with this data in a similar way to RLHF.
The evaluation on mathematical problems shows that RLKF can increase the truthfulness of the LLM whilst having a minor negative impact on accuracy.
One of the big problems with LMs is that they constantly hallucinate.
They do this a lot when given questions that they don't know the answer to.
Some of these questions that are particularly hard for LMs are arithmetic questions where the inputs are more than just a digit or two long.
The authors here propose an RL framework to remedy this issue.
This framework trains the model to prefer saying "I don't know" versus outputting an incorrect answer.
They have experiments on finetuned Llama-7b models, on two arithmetic datasets (GSM8K and another one they generate for this paper).
They have a lot of good baselines including ICL and SFT.
They show that their method is superior.
I feel like a bunch of the math was unnecessary and could've been explain in a few words: eq 1, equation at bottom of page 2, ...
Legend font in Fig 5 could be better if it was bigger 3.
What does the highlighting in Tab 1/2 of the "Rely" column mean?
This paper explores an interesting issue in current applications of LLMs: false refusals.
Unreasonable refusals can harm the user experience.
This paper proposes **Auto-Regressive Controllable Prompt Generation** for generating false refusal text, based on AutoDan and three objectives.
This method can generate natural prompts and control the harmfulness of the prompts and the probability of being refused.
Based on this method, this paper proposes a new dataset, PHTest, containing 1.5k prompts usable for detecting false refusals.
The authors made comprehensive evaluations of state-of-the-art large models, including commercial-level close-sourcde LLMs and open-source LLMs.
This paper presents an investigation about the False Refusals in defending harmful prompt.
The authors propose a method to generate a pseudo-harmful dataset, and use it to evaluate several popular LLMs.
Analysis are presented to show the tradeoff between false refusals and successful defendings.
In this paper, the authors study the problem of falsely refusing pseudo-harmful prompts by LLMs.
Specifically, the work proposes an approach to automatically generate pseudo-harmful prompts.
Using this method, the authors construct a new dataset called PHTest which is larger in scale and more finely annotated than existing datasets for this purpose.
They evaluate current LLMs on PHTest, revealing insights such as the correlation between model size and false refusal types, and the trade-off between safety against jailbreak attacks and low false refusal rates.
This paper focuses on an interesting problem LLMs may refuse pseudo-harmful user prompts and affect users’ experience.
To accelerate the development of this domain, the authors propose auto-generating pseudo-harmful prompts, leveraging a white-box LLM to generate natural, varied, and controllable prompts.
They construct a larger dataset PHtest and conduct extensive experiments on 14 models.
They also discuss a trade-off between false refusals and safety against jailbreak attacks.
This paper the problem of factuality evaluation of multilingual LLMs.
It introduces a pipeline, Multi-Fact, for multilingual factuality evaluation, adapting FactScore for diverse languages.
This pipeline first translates texts in other language into English, and then using FactScore for evaluation.
In experiments, this paper explores the potential and limitations of using non-English resources for factuality evaluation of long-form generation.
The Multi-Fact tool can also be used to investigate cultural and geographic biases in LLMs.
This paper explores multilingual LLM evaluation by adapting existing factual evaluation method FActScore.
The paper also studies the potential and limitations of using non-English resources such as non-English wikipedia and geographic biases in LLM.
It is nice that this paper tackles the multilingual challenge – this is very, very underexplored in our field.
Overall, the paper makes a few design decisions that I would have probably done differently, but the authors do justify their decisions relatively well and I think I would be able to replicate their methods.
In particular, I think the paper could be improved with two experiments: • Including at least one small experiment using a non-LLM translation compared to a translation LLM.
• Trying to see how FActScore would work on a language without translation.
Aka an experiment similar to section 4.1, but just done monolingually in the languages (such as Bengali generation and Bengali evaluation).
One of my first questions when I read the paper was “Why translate with GPT-3.5?”.
The authors do address this.
It is ok for some languages, but if you are going to do automatic evaluation, another commercial solution like Google Translate may make more sense – especially for low-resource languages (Kocmi et al, 2023; Robinson et al., 2023).
The authors make a nice point about gender in Google Translate and why they did not use it, but I would have still liked to have at lease seen one experiment showing what happens if you use that as well.
A comparison even for one language with Google Translate and GPT-3.5.
I would have also liked to have seen how the method works monolingually (aka not translating to English).
Again, the authors make claims as to why they made these decisions such as “which makes it difficult to compare cross-lingual factuality if the knowledge base is different.” However, it would be nice to still see how it works in different resource settings.
You are generating in that language, it could be another line or two in some tables.
This feels like it could also answer some of my questions about translationese impacts.
Overall, this paper is a nice attempt at multilingual fact checking, which is woefully underexplored.
This alone is a worthwhile contribution to the field.
This paper proposes AmbigDocs, a new benchmark for studying the behavior of LLMs on ambiguous document-based QA, and a methodological pipeline that can be used to create similar benchmarks from Wikipedia disambiguation pages using LLMs.
The questions in the benchmark are ambiguous in the sense that they contain a surface form of a named entity, which may refer to multiple actual entities in the answer documents.
The paper also gives a new spin to the definition of an answer in the context of LLMs and document-based QA and provides a taxonomy of 5 answer types, against which several SOTA closed- and open-source LLMs (LLaMa 7b and 13b, Mistral 7b, GPT-3.5 and GPT-4) are evaluated.
The benchmark and the answer taxonomy are the main contributions.
The key findings are twofold: 1) generating complete answers for ambiguous questions in AmbigDocs is a challenging task for the open- and close-source LLMs 2) prompting with in-domain in-context examples significantly improves the performance of LLMs.
The paper is generally well-written and the benchmark creation pipeline is clearly presented, although the analysis of results is quite short and shallow, which is the main limitation of this paper.
Another weakness is the artificial nature of ambiguity in benchmark questions and its unclear practical applications.
The paper focuses on evaluation of LLMs in factoid question answering where the salient entities in the question are ambiguous and the answer to the question could change depending on the ambiguity resolution of the salient entities.
The authors create AmbigDocs dataset to evaluate multiple LLMs and conclude that LLMs are not currently created with proper strength considering such questions.
The authors study if introducing synthetic data mimicking African-American English dialects into model training can narrow the gap in performance on AAE evaluation sets.
They first develop a framework to transform text into AAE based on typed phonological features of AAE derived from sociolinguistics literature.
They then present results showing that finetuning on this synthetic language lowers false positive rates in toxicity detection with AAE and leads to fewer model predictions of negative sentiment on AAE text.
They also conduct a masked span prediction experiment where they find mixed results in terms of perplexity after synthetic AAE finetuning, though it can lower perplexity in some cases.
The paper presents an approach to enhance the performance of LLMs on texts with African American Language (AAL) features particularly focusing on type-written phonological features.
They introduce an approach of generating synthetic typewritten phonological features that generates text with phonological transformations from a standard text.
The paper investigates how injecting this synthetic AAL text into training datasets impacts the performance of LLMs on tasks such as toxicity detection, sentiment analysis, and masked span prediction.
This paper proposes a simple method to improve the performance of the student model.
Specifically, the teacher model generates problem-solving instructions and corrective principles based on the student LLM's errors.
Then during inference, the student model can guide the inference process without the help from the teacher model.
This paper presents CLIN, a novel learning algorithm for LMM agents to reflect and improve on their collected experience by forming a memory of causal abstractions.
Expanding upon the _Reflexion_ algorithm, CLIN introduces dual memory updates to construct synergistic abstractions targeting two learning objectives, namely adaptation and generalization.
Experimental validation conducted in two diverse textual environments, ALFWorld and Science World, underscores the efficacy of CLIN compared to Reflexion and other relevant baselines.
The findings not only underscore the superiority of CLIN but also unveil insights into its underlying learning mechanisms.
Overall, this paper tackles an important problem within the field of decision-making systems and contributes to our comprehension of LLM's capabilities to form novel forms of reasoning.
While a more detailed exploration of the role of language as an internal tool for decision-making systems could enhance the paper's positioning, it is well-motivated, clear, and supported by thorough experimentation.
The paper introduces CLIN, a memory-augmented, large language model (LLM)-based agent capable of continuous learning from interactions with simulation environments.
The memory system records actions paired with their rewards to evaluate whether certain actions are necessary for achieving the final goals.
Results indicate that this approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on benchmarks such as ScienceWorld and ALFWorld, surpassing existing agent task planning methods like Reflexion, React, and Saycan.
The work proposes CLIN, which writes (create/edit) to a textual long-term memory semantic knowledge about the domain and its causal abstractions.
Compared to existing work like Reflexion or Voyager, the key difference is that CLIN learns across environments and tasks.
On ScienceWorld and ALFWorld, it shows performance gain over the base agent and compared to baselines like ReAct and Reflexion, across setups of performing same/different task/environments.
This paper proposes a general learning agent based on LLM to learn to act and adapt to within environments and across environments.
The proposed agent is composed of memories, controller, executor, and memory generator.
The four components build a pipeline for producing information necessary for interaction.
The authors also adopts a special prompting template and claim causal abstraction is learned.
The experiment results show a large boost over reflexion agents.
The authors introduce PairEval a dialogue evaluation metric for assessing responses by comparing their quality against responses in different conversations.
For this purpose they fine-tune a LLM to conduct the specific pair-wise dialogue evaluation task proposed.
Evaluation results show better correlation with human evaluations than other metrics used in the evaluation.
I think this paper presents an interesting idea and pushes forward the state of the art in open dialogue evaluations.
COLM participants and the research community will benefit from the ideas and results presented here.
However, I still feel additional work is needed to get a much better assessment of the benefits of the proposed technique.
For instance, it would be interesting to understand the range of variability of achieved results by changing the comparative examples used in the evaluations, as well as the training data used to fine-tune the LLM.
How much semantic similarity and/or topic overlap are there between the data used for fine-tuning and the evaluation data sets?
Also, how human evaluations correlate to other human evaluations?
I think an opportunity is missed here to understand better the complexity of the task for humans and get a better sense on how far or how close the proposed technique is bringing us to human evaluations.
This paper introduces a novel dialogue evaluation metric for assessing one response's quality by comparing the target dialogue with a set of different dialogues.
Specifically, the method requires the model to compare the target dialogue with each of the dialogues in the set and use the accumulated comparison score as the final evaluation for the target dialogue.
The method is based on moderate-sized open-source language models.
Experiments on multiple test sets show the effectiveness.
However, some statements are confusing and there are a few questions about the method.
The authors propose a new metric to evaluate open-domain dialogue via pairwise comparisons of responses in different dialogues.
They use an LLM to judge the system's response along with a number of randomly sampled utterance-response examples (with different context) and use the scores to calculate a final score for the system response.
This paper describes a new QA dataset for the Persian language.
Just like the MMLU dataset for English, this new 'PersianMMLU' dataset covers a wide range of subjects, ranging from the natural sciences to the humanities, and contains more than 20,000 questions.
The questions are multiple-choice with 4 answer alternatives, of which one is correct.
Each question has its associated metadata, which includes the educational stage for which the question is intended, the difficulty level (which I assume is relative to the intended user group), and a detailed explanation of why the indicated correct answer is correct.
The latter is very useful, as it can be used for 'chain-of-thought' training.
As a motivation for their work, the authors convincingly point out several shortcomings of using an automatically translated variant of English datasets like the MMLU.
The paper also contains experiments of applying various models to answer the questions.
An extensive appendix gives lots of details of various aspects of the dataset.
Unless I missed it, it is not explicitly stated in the paper that the dataset will be made public upon acceptance of the paper.
It is merely said that 'all associated code is publicly accessible in [anonymous link]'.
I assume the dataset will also be published open to everyone, but the authors should state this explicitly.
The paper introduces PersianMMLU which consists of a large number of multiple choice questions spanning a wide number of diverse tasks and subjects.
The dataset notably does *not* use machine translation (as it is sourced from Persian examinations).
Overall, the paper is well-written, sets clear differentiation from existing Persian/Farsi datasets like ParSQuAD and ParsiNLU, and presents some metrics on existing LLMs on their new dataset.
The authors present an LLM discussion framework for improving the creativity of LLM outputs by using multiple LLM agents with diversified role-playing instructions in a 3-step pipeline.
The paper presents a method called LLM Discussion, which is a multi-turn multi-LLM method to attempt to extract more creative responses out of LLMs on common creativity "brainteasers" such as Alternative Uses.
The work experiments on four types of tasks, and evaluates different conversational methods to extract creative answers.
The LLM Discussion method is found to be more creative both through a robust human evaluation, and using an LLM as a judge, which is found to correlate satisfactorily with human judgments.
This paper proposes an approach to enhancing the creativity of large language models (LLMs) by facilitating multi-agent discussions and incorporating role-playing elements.
The key ideas of a three-phase discussion framework and role assignment are well-motivated and explained.
The authors conduct evaluations across 4 creativity benchmarks, comparing their proposed method against baselines.
The results demonstrate improvements in some metrics of TTCT like originality and elaboration, suggesting that the proposed approach can indeed induce more creative and novel responses from LLMs.
Overall, this work presents a relatively convincing approach to an important problem in AI, with findings that are likely to stimulate further research in this area.
The study compares brain imaging (fMRI) data from Pereira et al.
(2018), which collected data from human participants exposed to multimodal conceptual stimuli, to representations from various small/medium-sized LMs and VLMs.
This is measured by common metrics: brain encoding performance, i.e.
predicting brain activations from model representations using ridge regression; and representational similarity analysis, i.e.
spearman correlation between pairwise similarity matrices obtained from the each representation.
These are correlated with a novel metric of semantic consistency as well as selectivity to language processing across brain regions.
Results show correlation between semantic consistency and both predictivity and alignment.
The work presents an analysis of brain-LLM representation alignment.
The focus here is on concepts rather than words, where concepts can be represented either as text or visually.
The study uses a dataset of fMRI readings collected in three settings (word in a sentence, word in a word cloud and word with accormpanying image).
This paper introduces SUV, a scalable, selective unlearning framework for large language models.
It first detects memorised copyrighted passages with a sliding‑window plagiarism probe, then applies Direct Preference Optimisation (DPO) against counterfactual continuations while using dual regularisation to preserve general utility.
Overall, the manuscript is clearly written and the DPO‑based selective unlearning idea is appealing.
Experiments indicate substantial forgetting of copyrighted text with limited utility loss on some benchmarks.
Nevertheless, the evidence is weakened by (i) unclear advantage over simpler baselines such as GA and NPO, (ii) only marginal or inconsistent gains from the regularised‑training component, and (iii) the possibility that the model may ignore prompts and reproduce memorised text during counterfactual generation.
**Presentation comments** - I cannot make an important comparison of baseline and proposed methods because several lines overlap in Figure 3.
This paper introduces SUV, a framework aimed at preventing LLMs from memorizing and reproducing copyrighted content while preserving their general utility.
The method involves creating a dataset of copyrighted infringement instances by the target LLM and then using DPO to encourage the model to generate plausible alternatives instead of verbatim copyrighted text.
To mitigate performance degradation on unrelated tasks, the authors incorporate gradient projection and Fisher information regularization.
The approach is validated on a large dataset of 500 books, reportedly showing a significant reduction in verbatim memorization with minimal impact on unrelated task performance.
This paper introduces the PersonaMem benchmark for evaluating LLMs’ ability to use the interaction history with a user correctly to deliver personalized responses.
In addition to static characteristics, a user has dynamic characteristics that change over time, and an LLM with memory should be able to track the changes and use the latest state.
This paper highlights current challenges in this important feature, but it could benefit from more meaningful comparison with other works in the memory-augmented agents literature.
The benchmark dataset contains 180+ interaction histories based on 20 personas, each interaction history contains 10, 20 or 60 sessions, and each session contains 15-30 turns between the user and the LLM.
The base personas are sampled from PersonaHub, the sessions span across 15 topics, and the dataset is mainly synthesized using GPT-4o.
Notably, a timeline of life events (general personal history) and a series of updates under a specific topic (specific personal history) are generated to simulate evolution of the user.
12 LLMs are evaluated on 7 types of queries representing different skills.
In the “long-context” setup, a full interaction history is input to the LLM.
The LLMs are found to be good at recalling simple user facts, but fall short on generating new ideas or providing suggestions in new scenarios.
They struggle to incorporate the latest user preference or state, but are more capable at recalling how these evolved over time.
Two setups with external memory have also been evaluated: RAG and Mem0.
They are both improvements, and RAG outperforms Mem0.
Regardless of whether to evaluate in a discriminative setting (choosing from 4 options) or a generative setting (computing log probabilities), the results are similar.
The paper aims to relate readability and statistical complexity with learnability.
It provides evidence that learnability stems from statistical complexity rather than from the readability of the training dataset.
Such result dilutes previously claimed similarities between human and LLM learning dynamics.
To test such hypothesis, the authors generate synthetic datasets which vary the readability while maintaining the quality of the dataset (measured by "coherence").
To accomplish such level of granularity, the datasets are generated using prompted LLMs and restricting their output vocabulary.
Then SLMs (Small Language Models) are trained on such datasets and evaluated on readability and coherence.
Both readability and coherence scores are obtained from a prompted LLM evaluating the generated text of the SLMs.
The paper provides 3 main results as evidence that readability $\neq$ learnability.
1) High coherence can be achieved by training on less readable data, without resulting in coherence for more readable data.
2) Coherence is negatively correlated with the number of unique trigrams in the dataset.
3) The time of coherence emergence through training does not depend on the readability of the training data.
Furthermore, the paper includes a final figure to show that the SLMs are not simply memorizing/overfitting the training dataset.
Instead they are able to generate new n-grams (especially higher order ones).
The purpose of the authors paper is to prove that coherence that is learned from small languages model doesn't come from how readable a dataset it but how statistically diverse it is.
The core contribution is developing a series of synthetic datasets where the authors control the readability followed by training small language models and using LLM as a judge to evaluate the coherence of the model.
The paper contests the claim that very small models are able to generate simplified text when trained on child directed datasets such as TinyStories because they have accessible vocabulary, and simple syntax and narrative structure.
The paper explores an interesting idea and does focused experiments related to it.
The writing is largely clear and I don't find anything particularly problematic.
This paper studies noise injection in embedding space for instruction fine-tuning of language models.
It first analyzes why the NEFTune method, which uses uniform noise, works better than Gaussian noise, and shows that when properly scaled, both perform similarly.
Building on this, the authors propose SymNoise, a new method that injects symmetric Bernoulli noise.
The goal is to regularize the model's response to small input changes—encouraging smoother behavior without computing gradients or Hessians.
Experiments across multiple datasets and models (e.g., LLaMA, OPT) show that SymNoise consistently outperforms NEFTune.
For example, it improves LLaMA-2-7B’s AlpacaEval win rate from 64.69% to 69.04%.
Additional analysis shows that SymNoise produces longer, more informative responses without increasing repetition, and generalizes better across tasks.
This paper studies an interesting problem, but there are flaws in the contribution, method, related works, etc.
This paper proposes a membership inference attack method for large language models (LLM).
The idea is to probe the LLM with prefix strings from a dataset and see if the suffix is generated.
The advantage of the method is its simplicity.
The authors show that it is a promising method on some proprietary and open-source models, though I do have some suggestions for improving the experiment and discussions: 1.
It is nice that both proprietary and open-source models are used in experiments.
However, we do not really know what is used in GPT-3.5/GPT-4, so as a matter of science there is no ground truth for your membership inference attack on those models.
In fact, even for the various LLaMa variants, do you know for sure that the data samples you presume are used in training really did occur in training (it wasn't filtered)?
I think it is fine to presume your new data is not in training, but the old ones are harder to say with certainty.
There are several ways to address this: - Be more clear about this as a caveat in Section 4.2 - Report both false positive and false negative results (or something similar that that breaks apart positive and negative samples, if you don't want to have a threshold) for at least one experiment.
- Provide more results on Tulu (or Olmo?) where it is more certain what was in training.
Table 2 for example only shows GPT-3, so I don't know whether to fully trust the numbers.
More discussion on efficiency is warranted.
The discussion in Section 4.6 says that the proposed method cost nxk tokens while previous work costs 100n, but is that difference important in practice?
If I were a prosecutor representing book publishers who is using membership inference attack to decide whether to sue a LLM provider on copyright infringement, I may have a large budget.
Further, I only need to find membership on just one book to provide evidence, i.e.
I do not need multiple books as evidence to create a case.
So I may be able to justify spending $1000 (I made up this number) on API calls since a lawsuit may be worth millions of dollars.
So how exactly is your method "efficient" under this broader scheme?
- I would suggest adding a table that investigates efficiency of your method in more detail.
It could be something like the top figures in Fig 2, but more in-depth.
For example, vary d and n and perhaps k and give recommendation on what is the recommended setting.
It may also be interesting to try on sequences that have relatively frequent words vs those that don't.
This is a minor point, but the discussion of "white-box methods" and "black-box methods" could potentially confuse the reader because these terms were not defined.
- Do you say clearly "white-box" means that likelihood information is used, and that it is not white-box in the sense that internal parameters are used.
Some API may provide a score for the generation so the distinction is important.
- Can you do "white-box methods" on "black-box models"?
It's not clear if methods and models are tied.
- Many of the results have statements like "N-gram coverage attack is more efficient than black-box methods" where methods is plural form but really it is just one method.
It is better to just say your method is better DE-COP rather than making a seemingly general claim of improvement over ALL black-box methods.
It may be worthwhile citing the following paper.
They show that using a group of sentences (rather than a single sentence) with ngram features can lead to improvements in the membership inference attack.
The method is different and their setting focuses on machine translation sequence-to-sequence models, but their result corroborates well with your idea of using multiple strings and ngram overlaps.
Membership Inference Attacks on Sequence-to-Sequence Models: Is My Data In Your Machine Translation System?
**Summary**: This paper presents an extensive evaluation for using LLMs in expert annotation tasks.
The evaluation is conducted on five datasets covering three domains that require expert knowledge (biomedicine, law, and finance).
The authors first evaluate four state-of-the-art LLMs with various recent prompting techniques and find that none of them lead to a clear improvement across all domains.
They then evaluate different combinations of models in a multi-agent discussion framework and find that this does improve the overall performance.
The analysis reveals some interesting model behaviors and establishes the correctness of the initial predictions as the upper bound for the multi-agent discussion framework.
* *Quality*: This paper presents a good analysis on using LLMs as expert annotators across different domains, models, and methods.
The experiments are well motivated and conducted in a systematic manner (e.g., the authors explicitly focus on datasets that include annotation guidelines).
* *Clarity*: The paper is well written and easy to follow.
Some parts could be explained in more detail (see reasons to reject/ questions).
* *Originality*: The paper is more a systematic study of existing methods and models; which somewhat impacts the originality.
However, the selection of domains and datasets is somewhat creative and original.
* *Significance*: Considering the recent trend of utilizing LLMs for annotation tasks and for synthetic data generation, the results of this work provide some interesting evidence towards how questionable such usage is.
Moreover, this work makes a good case towards a more thorough evaluation of many frequently used approaches.
---- Rebuttal update: raised score to 7
The paper proposes a general method for solving different classification tasks, showing that a simulation of inter-annotator discussion at inference timeleads to better matching the gold standard labels across tasks.
The paper introduces NoWag, a framework combining vector quantization (NoWag-VQ) and pruning (NoWag-P) to compress large language models (LLMs).
It achieves better performance than existing methods, reducing computational and memory requirements while maintaining accuracy.
In this paper, the authors propose a model compression method, NoWag, that can be applie to both quantization and pruning.
Unlike proor works that compress the original weight matrices, the authors propose to first normalize the weight matrices row-wise and column-wise, and then compress it.
In this way, the elements in the weight matrix has similar scalar range that are friendly to compression.
After the normalization, the weight matrix can be compressed by using the same methods proposed earlier, i.e.
kmeans for VQ and Wanda for pruning.
After extensive experiments, the authos show: 1.
Compared to VQ methods, NoWag outperforms QUIP#, and is comparable to AQLM.
Compared to Prunning method, NoWag outperforms Wanda for the 50% unstructured setting, comparable or mixed to Wanda for the 4:8 and 2:4 settings.
This paper studies the model compression.
The paper clearly states the problem of model compression using calibrated datasets and the proposed approach.
The main idea to to normalize the weight and then using the calibration dataset's activation as a weight to guide the VQ approach to compress the model weight more efficiently.
The paper is well written and with a discussion section describing why the proposed approach works.
This paper proposes a new theory about hyperparameter tuning, that is, near the optimal point, the loss landscape of the hyperparameters are noisy quadratic, therefore one may apply Taylor approximation or other similar techniques to fit the hyperparameter space, which may help find better hyperparameters.
I think the paper has many problems.
I have two main questions: 1.
When does the theory hold?
Does it hold universally?
If the theory holds, is the method proposed in this paper really optimal?
Specifically, I think the theory does not hold in general: 1(a).
Generally hyperparameters can be arbitrary, so we are really dealing with a blackbox function.
It's hard for me to believe all blackbox functions are noisy quadratic near optimal.
I think the paper mainly discussed about continuous hyperparameters.
Indeed, in the experiment, most parameters they pick are continuous.
What if there are discrete parameters?
How do you do Taylor expansion and fit it?
Or, how is Taylor expansion defined?
I think the authors mainly discussed some training task like training LLM/Resnet.
However, it is not clear to me that, why this will hold for other ML tasks.
I am asking about this because years ago, there were a crazy trend about using RL to find hyperparameters, but it turns out the RL algorithm will overfit to the training scenarios easily.
Now, the authors did not convince me that this paper is not a similar story: maybe the noisy quadratic case only holds for the parameters they pick on the task they chose, not for other more general cases.
Even if the theory is indeed true for most cases in AI, I still doubt the noisy quadratic theory is useful.
If the landscape is noisy quadratic, it seems that Bayesian methods will be very useful here, because Bayesian methods will assume the function is close to Gaussian, where noisy quadratic is indeed close to Gaussian prior.
Therefore, I believe using Bayesian will be as effective.
So some comparison is necessary.
Similarly, since most parameters in the experiment are continuous, I am thinking something like stochastic gradient descent on hyperparameters may help.
See e.g., [1] Maybe the authors should compare with that work as well?
I think the paper is not complete right now.
It still has many important discussions missing.
Clarity: Good, the paper is easy to follow.
I do not think noisy quadratic theory for hyperpameter tuning is specifically novel or useful.
I think more comparison with existing work, and discussion of generality is requried.
[1] Gradient-based Hyperparameter Optimization through Reversible Learning, Maclaurin et al.
The paper introduces a noisy‑quadratic parametric model that captures how random search improves validation loss once hyper‑parameters are near the optimum.
Experiments on three deep‑learning setups show that this simple model fits the tail distribution well and extrapolates tuning‑curve performance.
The paper presents a new benchmark for open-domain multi document summarisation (ODMDS).
The authors leverage two pre-existing single document query oriented long-context summarisation datasets in the stories (SQuALITY) and meetings domains (QMSum).
They convert the stories dataset into a ODMDS dataset by breaking the stories into chapters (each chapter is considered a document) and decontextualizing the query/question by re-writing it with an LLM.
A question may seek information that is present in multiple chapters.
For the meetings dataset they cluster queries and summaries in domains, merging similar queries and summaries into a single more comprehensive ones.
The generated new resources are human validated for quality.
Finally, the author test various RAG+LLM pipelines to assess the performance of various models in the newly generated benchmark.
In terms of retrievers, dense retrievers seem to clearly outperform sparse one in the stories dataset, while sparse retrievers are more competitive in the more challenging meetings dataset.
In terms of LLMs, DeepSeek v3 performs the best in the stories dataset while GPT-4o (and mini) perform the best in the meets dataset.
The LLMs performance vary depending on the retriever.
The paper introduces ODSUM, a set of benchmarks designed to evaluate Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems that require multi-document reasoning and synthesis capabilities.
Traditional RAG systems typically operate on single-document retrieval and generation, but many real-world applications demand the integration of information from multiple sources.
The authors propose a scalable approach for constructing multi-source RAG datasets from query-focused summarization datasets, resulting in two new benchmarks: ODSUM-STORY and ODSUM-MEET, that test retrieving complementary information from large data sources based on given queries.
These benchmarks require systems to retrieve and synthesize information from large corpora in response to realistic queries that reflect users' information needs.
The paper outlines the construction process, experimental setup, and results, highlighting significant variations in retrieval effectiveness across different tasks and methods.
This work describes LawFlow, a dataset aimed at supporting LLM-based systems in the task of defining complete end-to-end legal workflows, in contrast to current approaches that typically focus on different sub-tasks.
The framework is based on real workflows extracted by trained law students that cover from initial intake to operating agreement drafting, and are decomposed into modular subtasks (client elicitation, document review, iterative editing, ...).
The paper describes the dataset in detail and shows a comparison between LLM and human generated legal workflows, analysing the differences and detecting improvement points.
The paper is well written and motivated and addresses an interesting topic.
AI applications in the legal domain have gained enormous popularity in the last decade.
However, there are still gaps and this work comes to fill one of them.
Particularly, it treats the legal process not atomically or focusing on the outcomes only, but as a whole (what they call "chain-of-decisions").
This study has served to highlight the limitations of LLM-based approaches, paving the way to future approaches that will add more flexibility and revisioning capabilities.
The workflow preparation and annotation process is described in detail, as well as the comparative (human vs LLMs) analysis.
The paper describes still exploratory, non-conclusive, work, but progresses in the right direction and illustrates interesting findings in automatic workflow construction.
The paper introduces Lawflow, capturing end-to-end worlkflows collected from trained law students on business entity formation scenarios.
Most of the prior datasets in legal NLP emphasize static input-output mappings or linear reasoning, LawFlow records the modular, iterative, and adaptive decision-making processes involved in real-world legal tasks mirroring how legal practitioners deal with ambiguity and revise plans over time.
The authors use law flow dataset to assess how human workflows with differ from LLM based workflows and observed differences in identifying notable differences in structure, reasoning flexibility, and responsiveness to ambiguity.
They notice while human workflows are modular and iterative, while LLMs follow rigid, linear sequences with limited capacity for revision.
They also propose and demonstrate a workflow monitor that flags atypical steps based on deviance from human-like patterns, supporting reflective helpful behavior of these agents.
They also identify decision points like early-stage note-taking and question-asking, where AI assistance is most impactful.
These insights can help further to developing interactive legal AI tools such as workflow visualizers and reflective agents to assist legal practitioners.
This paper draws from theories of social epistemology and epistemic cognition and uses them as a principled framework to address how LLMs should present information in a structured interface when interacting with the user, when used as a knowledge acquisition tool.
It is written clearly, with detailed outlines of the framework and concrete analysis of existing LLMs and recommendations.
The language and jargons/terminologies of the framework can be convoluted and hard to follow at times; but I believe they are able to get the point across.
It certainly provides an original way of thinking about how LLMs should present information and knowledge, even though the framework itself is pre-existing and well established in other disciplines that are non technical.
It may prove to be of significance in terms of shaping the high level directions that LLMs might take, and governing the evaluation of LLM-like tools at large.
this paper explores the feasibility of using llms for detecting WebShells, which are malicious scripts injected into web servers.
Authors stated that more traditional ML/DL methods suffer from data scarcity, poor generalization, and are resource-intensive, while LLMs “could” offer a promising alternative but they face a series of technical obstacles that make its direct application unfeasible ( working with obfuscated code, very long inputs, etc ) .
The authors evaluate seven LLMs on a dataset of 26.6K PHP scripts, revealing that large LLMs achieve high precision but low recall, while smaller models show the reverse.
Based on that finding , and to address these limitations, they propose the “Behavioral Function-Aware Detection” (BFAD) framework.
The approach enhances recall for large models and precision for small models, mitigating token limitations and reducing hallucinations.
In this work, a multilingual spoken language understanding (SLU) benchmark, Fleurs-SLU, is proposed.
It is derived from Fleurs, Flores and its derivatives (SIB-200 and Belebele) spanning over 100 languages.
The SLU tasks include speech classification and question answering.
Detailed evaluation is also presented for both end-to-end and cascaded systems.
It would be a valuable benchmark for the SLU tasks.
This paper proposes to leverage lineage relationship between models to predict performance of fine-tuned or merged LLMs.
It demonstrates improvement over a scaling-laws-based method and provide interesting observations with practical implications on the effect of the lineage on the model performance.
The paper studies the effect of lineage on model predictive performance -- before running large-scale optimisation and prediction.
The authors show that various techniques, such as finetuning and model merging, fail to take into account the lineage relationships between various models that are derived from their ancestors.
Taking lineage features into account would help in improving the correlation between actual and predictive performance.
Existing techniques make use of scaling laws or an adaptation that considers parameter size and token count.
The authors pose a novel lineage-based matrix factorization technique that considers known graph paths as lineage dependencies accross original and derived models.
This technique also addresses the cold start problem of performance estimation of LLMs.
This work introduces E^2 RAG that improves the efficiency of RAG by editing compressed KV caches for knowledge updates.
In this system, all the information pieces are pre-encoded as compressed KV caches and stored for retrieval.
In the inference stage, the relevant compressed KV caches will be retrieved and added into the KV cache of the LLM for generating the response.
In this way, the LLM does not need to read the raw textual information on the fly and an reduced response latency could be expected.
Based on this framework, this work tries to handle the scenarios where the information that is pre-encoded compressed KV caches requires edit.
Thus, three edit operations, INSERT, DELETE, and UPDATE, to compressed KV caches are proposed in this work.
To evaluate, three datasets are constructed and three LLMs, including Llama3.2-3B, Llama3.1-8B and Qwen2.5-7B, are involved in experiments.
The paper introduces E²-RAG, an Editable Efficient Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) method for efficiently updating compressed knowledge caches (KV caches).
The proposed approach integrates an encoder-decoder architecture for efficient generation and an editor module that performs direct updates on KV caches through operations like INSERT, DELETE, and UPDATE.
This paper proposed to study the acquisition of math abilities during pretraining and instruction tuning.
The authors first define a problem generation procedure that synthesize problems from common core objectives.
Then, the authors studied the performance of models in different checkpoints of pre-training on these generated problems.
Last, the authors studied the performance change between pretraining and instruction finetuning.
Overall, the authors found that the math skill acquisition is genenerally monotonic and the model learns to solve problems of different difficulty simultaneously (rather than one by one).
Furthermore, instruction finetuning has different effect on different models.
The paper tries to explain why LLMs can reason with mathematical problems.
It creates a dataset MathCAMPS for that purpose.
There is no concrete summary, though.
This work devotes to improve LLM evaluation by proposing YourBench.
YourBench is an open-sourced framework that generates evaluation samples dynamically and automatically from user-provided documents.
Results show that YourBench not only provides more flexibility but also can make trustworthy conclusions cheaper and faster.
This paper introduces X‑Teaming, a multi‑agent framework that automates multi‑turn red‑teaming of large language models (LLMs).
X‑Teaming contains four components: Planner, Attacker, Verifier and Prompt Optimizer and run in 2 phases: 1.
first generate diverse plans that contains persona, contexts and strategies, 2.
then execute the plan by using the attacker to send queries.
For each round, the target model's behavior will be evaluated by verifier and optimized by optimizer if no progress is made.
X-teaming achieves SoTA attack success rate comparing to other existing attacks among different models.
Based on X-Teaming, this paper also provides X Guard-Train, which is a multi-turn safety dataset that contains 14k attack trajectories for improving conversation defenses.
The paper demonstrates that Fine‑tuning on XGuard improved defenses against multi-turn attacks.
This paper proposes a multi-turn jailbreaking method using multi-agent collaboration to achieve very high success rate.
It then also proposes an open-source multi-turn safety training dataset Guard-Train including 14k interactive jailbreaking datapoints.
This study investigates how well "unlearning" (in particular, removing information about a particular topic from an LLM) can be accomplished using an automatically constructed dataset rather than a human-curated set.
The authors demonstrate the feasibility of their technique (called "Synthetic Textbook Generation") while comparing it to the human-curated forget set baseline and two other baselines: generation of sentences/facts from a keyword and extracting relevant data samples from a large corpus (in this case "The Pile") via filtering.
All the approaches use GPT-4o-mini to accomplish the generation or filtering.
Overall, the biggest takeaway is that the synthetic techniques are comparable to the unlearning using an expert-curated dataset.
By choosing three top "unlearning" methods and two strong open source LLMs, the authors steer clear of trying to provide a "best" method/model overall, and instead show that their dataset leads to stronger performance than either of the baselines and usually is very close (or exceeding) the human dataset for each technique and model.
The authors cover a breadth of topics by choosing two technical topic areas and a literary topic.
They also perform an ablation study on their (somewhat complicated) textbook generation method to show that each step adds something.
And they even ablate the GPT model by using Mistral and Llama (their two models) to do the data generation, to good effect.
There are a few downsides to this paper.
The large tables of numbers (Tables 1-3) present so much information it is hard to digest them and the interpretation of the tables (part of sections 3.3 and 3.4) is much too brief.
They do offer an "average" (Unlearn Utility) which I think is a summary of the other metrics in the table, but the explanation of it is not fully clear (where do the two S values come from?).
They also discuss Pareto frontiers but the graphs in Figure 2 are quite hard to interpret as such, and their 3 line summary is not sufficient.
I consider this paper a worthy addition to the conference and recommend it is accepted.
This paper proposes an automated approach to develop a target domain specific dataset that can be used in the LLM post-training phase to perform LLM unlearning.
To improve safety and prevent the generation of copyrighted content, LLM unlearning step uses expert curated dataset to guide a model to forget a specific set of knowledge.
Developing such forget sets is time consuming and expensive process.
The proposed method takes a step to overcome this limitation.
The input to the system is the target domain name, and then the system uses LLM to generate textbook-style data using a structured prompting pipeline.
Given the input domain, it produces 10 subdomains, and 20 bullet points for each subdomain tailored to 4 audience knowledge levels (elementary school, high school, undergraduate, and PhD).
For each of these 800 (10x4x20) bullet points, 5 textbook-style chapters are generated.
Then the chapters are split into sentences and 20K longest ones are takes to create the final forget set.
GPT-4o-mini is used to generate the data.
The authors evaluated their approach by using the generated synthetic dataset in LLM unlearning, where they observed superior performance than alternative baselines and competitive performance to expert curated forget sets in WMDP.
The evaluation involves two models (Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3, Llama3-8B-Instruct), three unlearning methods (Random Mask Unlearning, Representation Routing, and Erasure of Language Memory) and three target domains (Biosecurity and Cybersecurity from WMDP, and Harry Potter).
They additionally compared against filtering-based forget sets by constructing forgets sets from The Pile and TxT360, and it underperformed the forget sets produced by the proposed approach.
* Increased my support for the paper after reading the author response.
This study proposes a way of creating unlearning datasets using language model themselves.
Various experiments demonstrate that synthetic datasets consistently outperform the baseline synthetic alternatives and are comparable to the expert-curated ones.
Additionally, ablation studies reveal that the multi-step generation pipeline significantly boosts data diversity, which in turn improves unlearning utility.
This work proposes a prompting method to generate forget sets for LLM unlearning, and shows that this approach outperforms the state-of-the-art in multiple conditions.
Work description is very clear and writing is very good, reporting important concepts in a clear manner.
This work does not propose a really new and original approach: it boils down adapting data generation pipeline to the unlearning context.
However, it is well-known in the LLM community that a carefully designed engineering contribution may have more impact than brand new original theoretical ideas; therefore, the experimental contributions and proposed design are clearly valuable and useful for the community.
The authors propose a simple and effective RL method that enables LLMs to make decisions during CoT reasoning and tool use, aiming to enhance the multi-step reasoning abilities of LLM agents.
Specifically, the synthetic rollouts are generated from a base LLM interacting with tools.
Then the rollout receives an outcome reward based on the final result and a process reward generated by a stronger LLM.
These rewards are then used to update the model.
Experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
* This paper proposes to apply multi-step reinforcement learning to improve LLMs' reasoning and tool use.
While multi-step RL has already been explored in LLMs, the contribution of this paper should be considered as the introduction of a teacher LLM as a process reward model (PRM) to provide reward in the tool use area.
* The writing and clarity of this paper can be further improved.
Some key contributions and novelties in the paper are not easy to capture.
* The experiment results are generally good, demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed method in Gemma/ Gemini.
One concern should be the limited number of teacher/ student models used in the experiment, which calls into question the generalization and robustness of the proposed method.
This paper proposes a new approach for preference modeling, which incorporates a two-stage learning approach.
First, a set of attribute preferences is learned (where the attributes are inspired by sociolinguistic research) via synthetic preference generation.
Then, the domains are combined using a generative model that combines context and attribute representations.
I found the paper easy to read, and understand.
The motivation is quite intuitive, and the technique, while simple, is relatively novel in its end to end implementation (though parts of it borrow from prior work -- see below).
Results for a "universal" model trained over hundreds of subreddits are very promising, when compared to other alternatives.
This work tackles preference modeling, i.e.
predicting evaluative judgement over a given content, introducing a framework dubbed LAVA, for LAtent Value Attribute, modeling the cognitive process, with good results in accuracy and interpretability in their experiments.
LAVA works by training predictors for the attributes, then used to produce attribute embeddings which are integrated with the content representation to predict a preference.
The accuracy of LAVA when predicting the preferences for a Reddit dataset bests their baselines, with an impressive margin for the generic GPT-4o.
Admittedly LAVA barely does better than the SoTA baseline but it has interpretable weightings, well in line with the specific subreddits.
Preference modeling is a very relevant subfield.
The intuition of relying on latent value attributes makes a lot of sense as it can indeed explain many of the preferences, translating in the good results shown here.
The paper itself is well written and a nice read.
The work seems sound, if limited to a single dataset, which might question the applicability of the approach to other preferences, where the picked attributes might not translate to similar results –the fact that it works well for multiple subreddits does not mean it would transfer beyond the very specific world of Reddit.
This paper proposes an information‑theoretic framework for tracing multimodal interactions in vision‑language models.
By estimating layer‑wise mutual‑information metrics, the authors reveal how visual features are progressively filtered, blended, and ultimately compressed as textual context flows through the layers of LLaVA‑1.5.
Overall, the motivation is clear and the framework could become a useful diagnostic tool for multimodal LLMs, pinpointing where visual and textual signals converge.
Nonetheless, the study has two notable weaknesses: (a) crucial mathematical notation in Section 3.1 is ambiguous, and (b) the main claims rely entirely on the behaviour of the two proposed metrics without additional supporting experiments.
Further empirical validation—such as interventions on hidden states—would be needed to substantiate the conclusions.
This paper proposes a new IB-based framework for analyzing multimodal LLMs.
The key idea is to leverage the concept bottleneck [1] to quantify the layer-wise visual information proportion and obtain the concept vector, which can be utilized for MLLM analysis.
Experiments have been conducted to answer various interesting questions, and some useful insights have been obtained.
[1] Koh, Pang Wei, Thao Nguyen, Yew Siang Tang, Stephen Mussmann, Emma Pierson, Been Kim, and Percy Liang.
"Concept bottleneck models." In International conference on machine learning, pp.
The paper introduced a information theory based method for analyze interactions between visual tokens and text tokens in multimodal LLMs.
The framework trained a Concept encoder to extract concept bottleneck information.
The author did ablation studies on a few benchmarks with carefully designed visual and textural prompting to study the interaction relationships.
The paper introduces an information-theoretic framework to understand and quantify how textual instructions shape multimodal representations in Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs).
By leveraging principles from the Information Bottleneck and Concept Bottleneck, the authors proposed a framework that maps complex multimodal representations into interpretable latent spaces.
An InfoNCE-based contrastive mechanism is then used to explicitly separate and quantify the contribution of textual input from raw visual information.
Empirical studies are conducted to demonstrate the dynamics of multimodal processing, including how visual information undergoes multi-stage transformations when influenced by various types of textual instructions, and how disruptions in text input can lead to degradation or hallucinations in visual representation quality.
Overall, the paper is theoretical strong and has several empirical results backed inferences that would be useful to the multimodal community.
The paper proposed an interesting alignment method which can control for various dataset biases.
The experiment setup is good and clean in the paper.
However, it makes some wrong assumptions (bias towards brevity) and makes some unnecessary SOTA claims which led to my overall score.
This paper proposes a family of reference-free alignment methods for multi-preference optimization which maintain response length control.
The technical contributions that enable this are deviation-based weighting and a length regularizer.
Theoretically, they show that naive length normalization can lead to shorter negative responses and shows how they can be addressed through additional constraints.
Empirical results show REFA achieves state-of-the-art performance on AlpacaEval2, with 26.6% length-controlled and 24.2% standard win rate.
This paper introduces a reference-free multi-preference optimization method.
It combines some of more successful techniques in the literature such as deviation-based weighting and length-normalized scores.
In addition, an additional EOS regularization term is introduced to further control the termination of model predictions.
On both Mistral and Llama models, the experiments show that the proposed method (REFA-dynamic) significantly outperforms various baselines.
The paper presents a new method for offline alignment which is reference-free, multi-preference and combines 3 different signals: length normalization, deviation-based weighting, and an EOS probability regularizer.
The paper provides a good motivation for each component in its algorithm and a good motivation for each (while justifying the differences to previous work).
I found the writing sometimes a bit "dense" and I can see some whitespacing mistakes that seem like for fitting the paper into 9 pages.
E.g: line 290 and 293 there is no space after the full stops.
The paper proposes a variant of the transformer architecture called pyramidal attention.
In this architecture one forms a pyramid graph over the sequence at different resolutions and then applies attention among the neighbors of that graph.
This leads to a network that can attend to long sequences of length L with O(L) computation but at the same time attention path between two sequence positions is O(1).
This is especially relevant for time-series forecasting as it has potential to summarize the time-series at different scales like hourly, daily, monthly etc.
Some experiments are performed on 4 datasets to show the advantage of this architecture over other transformer variants.
The authors propose a new architecture to tackle the problem of long sequence temporal forecasting (LSTF) – which looks at capturing long-range dependencies in time-series data by providing more direct paths between the output and distant history.
The Pyraformer takes an interesting spin on the current state-of-the-art sparse transformers, consisting of 2 main components: 1.
A dilated CNN encoder to learn coarse-scale representations at multiple resolutions.
A decoder with a pyramid structure that applies attentions masks to a limited subset of nearest neighbours (i.e.
parents, adjacent nodes and children) – effectively sparsifying fully connected attention patterns by imposing a prior structure onto attention patterns.
This paper presents a new hierarchical transformer architecture with constant connection path length and linear time and space complexity for long-range time series modeling.
The module at core is a pyramidal attention network that makes multi-resolution representations in a tree structure and perform attention operations on the tree.
A stack of convolutions is used to initialize the pyramidal tree.
Experiments show the proposed method is able to make more accurate predictions with significantly fewer attention operations and, as a result, less time and memory expenses.
This paper proposes Pyraformer, a low-complexity pyramidal attention model for long-range time-series modelling and forecasting.
The proposed architecture is build upon a pyramidal attention module (PAM) in which the inter-scale tree structure summarizes features at different resolutions and the intra-scale neighbouring connections model the temporal dependencies of different ranges.
The proposed framework harnesses the benefit of both transformer and RNN.
Evaluation on Electricity, wind, App Flow, and ETT dataset against baseline models including Informer., LogTrans, Longformer, Reformer, ETC shows superior performance.
The authors present a method to generate co-speech gestures by learning a vector-quantized representation space of gestures coupled with a machine translation from natural language sentences to that representation space.
They design a denoising variational autoencoder (DVAE) to learn the encoding space corresponding to gesture sequences, and then quantize that encoding space using nearest neighbor embeddings.
Once the vector quantized representations are learned, they use a sequence-to-sequence network to translate the text transcript of the input speech to those representations, which they subsequently decode into the output co-speech gestures.
They train and test their method on the Trinity Gesture Dataset and show the improvements achieved by their method on both objective and subjective evaluations.
This paper tackles with co-speech gesture generation.
First a denoising autoencoder is applied to the body pose detected at each frame.
Then, a Vector Quantized Denoising Variational Autoencoder learns to create a motion vocabulary by parameterizing the posterior distribution of discrete latents.
As the third step, a two-layered bidirectional gated recurrent neural network with a soft attention mechanism is used for translation from text to gesture vocabulary.
The decoder of Vector Quantized Denoising Variational Autoencoder is used to reproduce the entire gesture sequence.
This paper introduces KINet (Keypoint Interaction Network)---an end-to-end unsupervised framework to reason about object interactions in complex systems based on a keypoint representation.
There are three major steps in this model: extracting keypoint coordinates, inferring a probabilistic graph representation of the system, and estimating the next state of the system conditioned on the action.
**The main idea of the paper** This paper combines two powerful ideas, 1.
unsupervised keypoint extraction for objects and 2.
object-centric representation for forward modeling.
KINET first detects objects' key points in the video in an unsupervised manner and extract object-centric representation for future prediction.
Experiments are conducted in a new dataset built on MuJoCo and the performance in table 1 shows the proposed framework achieves better performance than the baseline methods.
This paper seeks to study what is the bottleneck in long-tailed learning.
Based on extensive experiments, the authors propose that representation learning is the bottleneck in long-tailed classification.
Also, this paper analyzes representation learning from the perspectives of intra-class compactness and inter-class separation, as well as the influence of data mixup on long-tailed representation learning.
The authors study the long-tail dataset problem in order to determine the true bottleneck for the task.
After performing many ablations and experiments on 3 benchmark datasets they establish that contrary to common belief the bottleneck is in data representation rather than the classifier itself.
This paper tries to prove that there is a bottleneck in feature learning for long-tailed classification and data augmentation can help relieve the issues in long-tail feature space.
Three major experiments were done to prove that feature space 1) is more biased than balanced feature space, 2) is more disused and less compact than balanced feature space, and 3) less localized in terms of feature centroids.
And data augmentation can help alleviate all three issues.
This paper poses an interesting and important question - where are the bottlenecks in long-tailed classification.
The authors use empirical experiments to show their observations: (1) representation is more critical than classifier, (2) data augmentation is helpful.
Three datasets (CIFAR-10 LT, CIFAR-100 LT and ImageNet-LT) are employed to work with ResNet-32 and ResNet-10 models to demonstrate their observations.
This paper proposes DreamerPro, an extension to Dreamer where it swaps the reconstruction loss with a prototype learning loss based on SWAV.
At each optimization step, DreamerPro augments each batch of observations into two using different augmentations.
It uses the Sinkhorn-Knopp algorithm to compute the target clusters for each batch, with the goal of encouraging uniform clustering assignment within each augmented batch.
Intuitively, the prototype learning loss rewards prediction accuracy both from across the views, which adapts from the original SWAV approach, and within the same view, which the authors mention help build temporal information into the learned prototypes.
DreamerPro outperforms the original Dreamer on most of the tasks on the Deepmind Control benchmark, and drastically improves on the Deepmind Control benchmark with noisy backgrounds.
The paper presents DreamerPro, a method for learning a latent dynamics model from image observations without a pixel-based reconstruction loss.
The model combines the clustering approach of SwAV with an additional temporal consistency loss.
Experimental results show improved performance over baselines in distraction-free and natural-video-background settings on DeepMind Control Suite tasks.
The authors incorporate Neural Cellular Automata (NCA) into the decoding process of a variaitional autoencoder.
They then train this model on a number of toy datasets, test out beta-VAE to make better reconstructions, and show a few reconstruction/decoding tasks that highlight the contributions of the described approach.
The paper studies the gradient subspace and finds it low-rank propery.
This observation motivates them to propose a new algorithm that reuses similar past gradients to save communication.
They provide a theoretical analysis (with some mistakes) and conduct experiments to validate their method.
The paper talks about efficient multi-modal training.
They hypothesize that multi-modal training is greedy and perform experiments to empirically show the same.
They propose metrics such as conditional utilization rate and conditional learning speed which serves as a proxy for the former to measure the imbalance in utilization between modalities while training.
Based on conditional learning speed, they propose a multi-modal training algorithm that mitigates the imbalance in modality utilization.
Through experiments, the authors empirically show that it is true and their training paradigm performs better than vanilla multi-modal training.
This paper focuses on the multi-modal interaction problem, that multi-modal models tend to rely on just one modality while under-utilizing the other modalities.
Since conditional utilization rate cannot be computed efficiently during training, they introduce an efficient proxy based on the pace at which a DNN learns from each modality, which we refer to as conditional learning speed.
So they propose a training algorithm, balanced multi-modal learning, and demonstrate that it indeed addresses the issue of greedy learning.
The proposed algorithm is found to improve the model’s generalization.
This paper studies long-horizon manipulation tasks given sparse rewards and a few demonstrations from a hindsight relabeling-based approach.
Specifically, it leverages the demonstration states as relevant goals in the goal relabeling process to guide task-specific exploration.
When evaluating the policy, the online goals are sampled from a goal dataset, composed of successful states and final states from the demonstrations.
When relabeling the goals for training, the goals are sampled from the set of states visited by the demonstrations.
Rather than operating over the raw state observations, this method utilizes an encoder, which can be either engineered by an expert or learned through self-supervision, to extract a latent representation.
Then, the rewards are relabeled in hindsight based on a thresholded distance in the latent space.
This paper aims to improve the learning effectiveness and data efficiency for long-horizon control tasks under sparse rewards with demonstrations.
Building upon prior works on DPGfD and HER, the authors proposed a new hindsight goal relabeling technique, which is referred to as “task-constrained goal-conditioned RL” to differentiate against “general goal-conditioned RL” as in prior works.
Specifically, instead of selecting goals from the learned agent’s rollouts, the new technique only selects goals from the successful rollouts (and demonstrations).
Rigorous experiments demonstrated that the proposed algorithm outperforms prior works on a very challenging bidextrous peg insertion task in simulation, in the aspects of the learned agent’s final performance (e.g.
task completion rate) and data efficiency (e.g.
number of demonstrations).
The authors present a method for ultra-high resolution image segmentation.
It follows the learn to zoom approach to non-uniform downsample the original high resolution image.
Furthermore, it adds edge-based loss to guide the downsample process.
The upsampling step is also included in the training stage.
The proposed method is evaluated on several public datasets and achieves promising results.
Effectiveness of components are verified in the experiments.
This paper address the semantic segmentation problem on high-resolution images.
Existing methods uniformly downsample the original image to a small version to meet the memory requirement, while the uniform downsampling is suboptimal.
The authors propose a deformed downsampling method in this paper and mainly compare it with the previous edge-based downsampling, showing better performance.
Although the proposed method is somewhat similar to one previous method, while directly applying which on segmentation task does not improve the performance.
This demonstrates the importance of the modifications proposed by the authors in this paper.
This paper aims to improve the performance of segmenting ultra high-resolution images by replacing the commonly used downsampling functions with the learned deformation sampling module.
The biggest difference of the proposed method is, instead of sampling all areas uniformly, the sampling density is estimated based on the contents.
The experiment results on the Cityscape, DeepGlobe and PCa-Histo datasets show some improvements on mIoU and cost-performance trade-offs compared with uniform downsampling.
Semantic segmentation using deep learning techniques becomes challenging if the input images are of high resolution.
The image resolution can be lowered and the network learned, but downsampling based on uniform grid pattern on the high resolution image can lead to network not being able to learn semantic information in high frequency regions, i.e.
the loss of information is uniform over the image.
In order to alleviate this problem, the downsampling can be done based on a non-uniform grid on the high resolution image which is content adaptive where more samples are selected at the high frequency/important regions while low frequency regions are sampled sparsely.
Previous work has computed this non-uniform downsampling in a deep learning framework as an independent task.
This paper proposes to jointly learn the downsampling grid estimation task and the particular task of semantic segmentation.
They show improved IoU metric over semantic segmentation results on standard benchmarks.
The paper introduces VPR, an unsupervised hierarchical latent variable model.
The latent representation is organized into a temporal hierarchy, with deeper layers representing features with slower rates of change.
This hierarchy is enabled by an event detection mechanism that finds expected events in the input using VPR's internal transition model, and finds unexpected events through changes in the latent distributions at each level of the hierarchy.
The paper demonstrates VPR's performance on unsupervised event boundary discovery, and how it is able to learn disentangled representations, on a variety of synthetic video datasets.
Variational Predictive Routing (VPR) models continuous data as a hierarchical renewal process.
More specficially, it is a hierarchical generative model that organizes the temporal hierarchy based on the rates of change of its latent representations.
The core contribution hereby is that event detection is formulated as a comparison between semantically consistent KL divergences (or, in the case of CU, a moving average of KL divergences).
VPR is time agnostic and can model a wide variety of temporal structures.
Compared to a baseline method (VTA), VPR detects changes in synthetic datasets with high accuracy.
This paper presents a new model for unsupervised event detection, which has the following three technical contributions: - It proposes individual criterion and mechanisms to detect expected and unexpected observations based on the comparison of prior and posterior latent representations.
(Novel) - It uses the above criterion to control the update rate of the latent states in a hierarchy of RNN layers.
(Somewhat similar to VTA [Kim et al., 2019]) - The paper includes some interesting experiments to support the effectiveness of the proposed method.
(But not convincing enough)
The paper proposes a new method for l0-CCA using stochastic gating which allows for an efficient algorithm and also permits a deep-version of the l0-CCA.
Results are shown on synthetic and real-world datasets that highlight the superior performance of the proposed approach.
Main Contributions: 1).
The paper proposes a new approach for l0-CCA that uses a continuous relaxation of a bernoulli random variable via stochastic gating.
The paper extends the proposed method to l0-deep-CCA which allows non-linear interactions between the two CCA views.
Results are shown on synthetic and real-world datasets which show the superior performance of the proposed l0-CCA methods.
Paper presents a novel sparse nonlinear-CCA method which works especially for cases where number of sample are less than max input feature dimension (D) N << D.
It presents a novel algorithm that uses Gaussian relaxation of Bernoulli gating variables that sub-select sparse set of features.
Empirical results on synthetic and real world data show efficacy of the method.
The paper proposes a sparse canonical correlation analysis method based on l_0 norm.
A continuous relaxation scheme is adopted for solving sparse CCA.
The proposed model is then extended to nonlinear function estimation and combined with deep neural networks.
Experimental results on synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods.
I have seen this manuscript before.
The main contribution of this paper is to combine two existing works, Gaussian-based continuous relaxation of Bernoulli random variables, gates (Yamada et al., 2020), and sparse CCA (Suo et al., 2017).
This paper presents a new model for grammar induction for text, with help from the coupled images.
The model was built on top of an existing unsupervised grammar induction model used for text without image information.
The experimental results show the approach was effective.
The work essentially demonstrates some effective ways of leveraging the additional image information for improving the grammar induction task.
The paper also discussed some weaknesses of the approach and future work.
The paper proposed a new method CLIORA to do unsupervised parsing and vision-language grounding.
But different from previous unsupervised parsing methods, CLIORA also induces alignment between constituents and image regions.
In order to train the model, the author introduces a contrastive loss.
Experiment results show that the proposed method outperforms baseline unsupervised parsing methods and it also induces meaningful alignment between image regions and constituents.
In this work, the authors proposed some novel estimators for mutual information, namely the GIWAE, Muti-Sample AIS and MINE-AIS bounds.
The key idea is to apply importance sampling to mutual information in the model-based setting.
In both theoretical and empirical analysis, they prove the bounds are much tighter than the existing ones in the literature.
This work combines the technique of Annealed Importance Sampling (AIS) with Importance Weighted Autoencoder (IWAE) bounds on mutual information to obtain new and significantly tighter bounds.
They examine the situations where the joint distribution $p(x, z)$ is known via $p(z)$ and $p(x | z)$, and the situation where only $p(z)$ is known.
In the former case, they obtain exact bounds (or asymptotically exact given large enough sample sizes), and in the latter case they find approximate bounds by learning an energy function to approximate $p(x |z)$.
Their experiments show the utility of their proposed method.
In particular, they obtain impressively tight lower and upper bounds for complex latent variable generative models (VAE and GAN) on complex data such as CIFAR-10.
The paper introduces "Open-ended Supervised Learning (OSL)", a method that handles data form multiple domains (open-ended data).
OSL leverages an Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm to train the "subjective function" that allocates models to data domains.
The paper presents the theoretical foundations and empirical results in which it outperforms existing baselines for (generated) regression and classification tasks.
The authors present a novel framework for learning different target concepts.
They argue that so far, a single classifier is supposed to learn mixed concepts but usually fail.
Hence, they propose a framework for sampling instances according to only a single target concept and solving this problem with classical ERM and repeating for other concepts.
They provide theoretical analyses and empirical insights.
This paper proposes a framework for open-ended data by learning a subjective functions that allows to represent multiple domains without interference.
The framework works in two stages: 1) evaluating a set of candidate hypotheses for each domain using a batch of data for that domain, 2) training the hypothesis with the smallest error for each domain.
The paper also proposes two new evaluation metrics, one to determine the error of the subjective function and one for calculating the model error in domain prediction.
The authors provide both theoretical and experimental analyses of the proposed framework.
In terms of theoretical analyses, the authors provide some guarantees in terms of learnability and generalisation error.
In terms of experimental results, the authors test both regression and classification tasks with data of multiple labels and hierarchical labels.
Comparisons to other approaches such as ProbCon, Pseudo-L and LabelProp in Colored MNIST, CIFAR-100 and Fashion Product Images datasets demonstrate gains of the proposed approach versus counterparts.
The paper aims at tackling the black-box nature problem of GNN by introducing a new type of explainable GNN framework called DEGREE (Decomposition based Explanation for GRaph nEural nEtworks).
There are mainly two innovations.
The first one lies in its ability to track contribution of components in the input graph.
The second one is the algorithm for subgraph-level explanation via agglomeration.
The model achieves a good compromise between performance and time efficiency.
This paper proposes a decomposition-based explanation method for graph neural networks.
The motivation of this paper is that existing works based on approximation and perturbation suffer from drawbacks.
To address the issue of existing works, the authors directly decompose the influence of node groups in the forward pass.
The decomposition rules are designed for GCN and GAT.
Further, to efficiently select subgraph groups from all possible combinations, the authors propose a greedy approach to search for maximally influential node sets.
Experiments on synthetic and real-world datasets verify the improvements over existing works.
The paper provides DEGREE, which decomposes the feedforward propagation mechanism of a GNN to understand it.
They give realistic decomposition techniques for those typically used layers in GNNs after presenting the key guidelines for developing decomposition-based explanations.
They also devise an approach for providing subgraph-level explanation via agglomeration, which makes effective use of graph topology.
DEGREE surpasses baselines in terms of fidelity and can capture important structures in graph data, according to experimental results.
This paper proposes a decomposition-based explanations method for graph neural networks.
In detail, the authors design a subgraph level interpretation algorithm to reveal complex interactions between graph nodes, so as to achieve the faithful explanation for GNN predictions.
They demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method on synthetic and real-world datasets.
This paper presents a method of using external memory called "shared workspace" for communication among different neural modules or "specialists".
The key idea is that there are limits on the communication bandwidth and the specialist modules must compete for access.
The communication limit encourages specialization and compositionally and facilitate better synchronization.
Experiments over a variety of tasks indicate the proposed Shared Workspace model improves performance over baselines.
Paper proposes a novel mechanism for information exchange between different neural subnets.
It replaces the pairwise interactions with a share memory space.
The memory is updated by a competitive scheme which the top-k updates are selected via the key-query-value attention mechanism.
The shared memory/workspace then broadcast the updated state to all other upstream specialist subnets.
Each specialist subnet then update its representation/weights accordingly.
Paper claims 3 advantages of this approach: 1.
Higher-order (HO) interaction among neural modules 2.
Dynamic filtering due to persistence of memory.
Lower computational complexity of using shared workspace for synchronizing different specialists Experimental results are very promising across a wide variety of tasks, namely DETECTING EQUILATERAL TRIANGLES; SORT-OF-CLEVR; CATER: OBJECT TRACKING; for transformer architectures.
Also, experiments on RIM for the BOUNCING BALL task and TIMS for the MULTIMNIST GENERATION and Language Modeling Task were also done.
Finally, the approach was also experimented on model free RL on ATARI game task.
This paper proposes a communication framework to have multiple modules communicate and switch precedence efficiently, taking inspiration from Global Workspace Theory in cognitive science.
The primary contribution is a scheme to replace complete pairwise communications in modularized architectures with a single, limited-capacity workspace that persists and changes over stages of computation.
In the read phase, the internal states of all modules are updated via another key-value attention scheme.
The related work motivates this paper by the classical AI principle that intelligent systems should have multiple specialized modules rather than one general entity.
It distinguishes from prior slot-based memory work in that memory writes here are sparse and competitive, and prior work on reducing computational complexity of Transformer dot product attention through its persistent memory.
It aptly assesses itself as a unification of existing ideas.
The experimentation section tests different parts of the proposed scheme.
The triangles experiment tests the comparative speed to convergence (and accuracy) of the HO communications here compared to pairwise in baseline Transformer.
The MNIST generation experiment with TIMs shows that the shared workspace gives an advantage on domains where input dimensions are mostly independent.
The CATER experiment shows a similar result to the triangles experiment (quickly picking out only relevant information) but in a time series, and the Sort-of-CLEVR experiment again reinforces the power of the shared workspace on sparse tasks.
The physical reasoning shows general improvement, and the Atari performance shows considerable improvement due to modularization.
The paper proposes a modification for attention-based network architectures drawing inspiration from the global workspace theory in cognitive science.
Essentially connections are made sparser, with different ‘specialist’ units communicating with each other through a limited bandwidth channel.
This paper proves a Representer Theorem for the composition of functions from Reproducing Kernel Banach Spaces (RKBSs).
The paper proposes to use kernels from a reproducing kernel Banach space, instead of a reproducing Hilbert space in tasks such as deep kernel learning.
The paper presents a means of constructing deep (concatenated) reproducing kernel Banach space kernels.
The main contribution appears to be a representor theory for concatenated Banach space kernels.
Some experimental results are provided to accompany this result.
The authors introduce a theory on how to learn arbitrary input spike train - output spike train mappings, using a feedforward SNN with heterogeneous neurons and skip connections.
Then this theory is used to train a deep SNN using either BPTT or STDP.
The SNN is then evaluated on IBM DVS Gesture, N-Caltech101.
The accuracy that they get with BPTT is beyond the SOTA.
## Updated the score This paper proposes to address an important research question for connecting biological (BNN) and artificial neural networks (ANN).
Although after training, ANN replicates various salient features of BNN, the way they are often trained is biologically implausible and thus, it is hard to argue that ANNs are suitable for modeling BNNs convincingly.
In particular, this work focuses on the already existing CORnet who has shown a high Brain-score.
The idea of the authors is to show that they can largely reduce the number of updates when using their methods while still retaining a high Brain-score, thus proposing a potential training mechanism for BNNs.
The paper is concerned with closing the gap between the amount of training in deep networks and in developing brains, as the current deep learning models use an unrealistically large number of synaptic updates.
The authors address that with three strategies: less training, weight clustering and training in a subset of layers.
All methods are tested individually and in combination with each other on primate ventral stream data.
The paper addresses the question of how many weight updates are needed to train a deep network before it takes on biologically realistic representations.
The paper uses CORnet-S (a network that has been proposed to resemble primate ventral stream), and BrainScore (a benchmark of how closely related deep network responses are to visual responses in primate ventral stream).
Three ways of reducing the numbers of weight updates are explored, each of which is found to vastly reduce updates while moderately reducing BrainScore.
First, the network is simply trained for fewer epochs.
Second, weights are initialized with clusters of weights found after training.
Third, only a subset of layers is updated.
A combination of methods leads to 80% of full brain predictivity with 0.5% of the standard number of weight updates.
While deep networks are known to be biologically implausible, the strong similarities between the feature maps in such networks and the response characteristics (tuning curves) in different areas of the mammalian visual cortex (in particular the ventral stream) has prompted much work into trying to reconcile the known differences.
The authors present work that contributes to such inquiries, demonstrating that at least some of the strong impediments in using such networks as plausible visual stream models may be more easily surmountable than they have thus far appeared to be.
In this paper, the authors first point out that the requirement of efficiency of IW- and DA-based methods is the overlapping between the source domain and target domain.
Meanwhile, theoretical analysis also shows that insufficient overlapping problems can cause the hardness or impossibility of IW- and DA-based learning methods.
In light of this, this paper aims to propose a novel method to optimize recommendation results by solving such insufficient overlapping problems.
Specifically, a principled transportation-constraint risk minimization objective function is devised to optimize the recommendation results, which is able to transport the learned patterns from the source domain to the intervention domain better.
Then a two-layer adversarial model (GDA) is deployed to optimize the transportation-constraint risk minimization objective function, and sufficient analysis of the GDA is provided.
Extensive experiments were conducted on both real datasets and semi-synthetic datasets to show the superiority of the proposed method.
The authors propose a novel way to learn new recommendation deterministic policies from feedback collected under different recommendation policies.
To this end, the authors propose a novel way of re-weighting and regularizing empirical risk that encourages the search for policies that have better reward (lower risk) and are still overlapping in evidence with the current policy.
To escape the support issue that is present in the existing approaches, the authors switch the regularization parameter to an IPM metric (WASSERSTEIN) that can handle non-overlapping supports.
The authors provide both theoretical and empirical evidence that the resulting algorithm outperforms existing SOTA methods.
This paper proposed a new perspective for recommender systems: rephrase optimizing recommendation as finding an intervention that best transports the patterns it learns from the observed domain to its intervention domain.
To optimize the recommendation algorithms in this setting, the authors proposed a transportation-constraint risk minimization objective and convert it to a two-player minimax game.
Theoretical and empirical studies demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method.
This paper introduces a new grammar-based generative model for the molecule generation task.
The graph grammar is defined as a set of production rules that operate on module graphs (i.e.
the molecule graphs are not linearized as done in some previous work).
The graph grammar is learned by iteratively contracting hyperedges (i.e.
edges that can connect multiple nodes, defined by simple chemistry-inspired rules) into non-terminal nodes and the submission proposes to learn how to sample the hyperedges by a REINFORCE algorithm that optimizes for several molecule generation metrics.
The evaluation is done both on small and large molecule generation datasets.
Notably, the proposed method achieves strong performance while being very data-efficient.
This paper proposed an interesting grammar learning-based data-efficient molecule generation model.
The key idea of this method is to learn a set of production rules via a hyper-edge selection process that optimizes a set of evaluation metrics.
This method achieves impressive performance on extremely small datasets and achieves competitive performance compared with end-to-end models trained on a large dataset.
The paper presents a data-efficient graph grammar-based approach to molecular generation (with a focus on polymer generation).
The model requires that the molecule be represented as a hyper-graph.
The productions of the grammar are basically rules for contracting connected nodes into a single node (a non-terminal symbol), which are later expanded during generation.
Each rule is essentially derived from a random sample of the hyper-graph edges: the grammar is produced by iteratively contracting the nodes incident to the edges into non-terminal nodes until the hyper-graph consists of a single non-terminal node.
This procedure is applied simultaneously to all the graphs of the training set.
Once a grammar is obtained, it is optimized by maximizing some desired metrics (such as diversity).
The optimization is non-differentiable since it requires generated graphs to evaluate the objective function, and thus the authors resort to approximate the gradient's expectation using MC sampling and the REINFORCE score function estimator.
This paper proposes a sample efficient hypergraph grammar learning algorithm for generating molecules.
The bottom-up search algorithm conducts iterative contraction according to a learned policy, where in each iteration, several hyperedges are sampled, contracted into a single node, and written into a production rule as part of the final grammar.
The search policy is being trained using RL where the rewards are given by evaluating a set of molecules generated by the policy.
The proposed method is evaluated on a small and a large monomers dataset and outperforms existing molecule generation algorithms in terms of the synthesizability and the membership rate.
This paper studies the selection of clients for federated learning under the assumption of full participation via submodular function maximization.
Specifically, the goal is to obtain a subset of the clients such that the aggregation of the gradients of their loss functions approximates the full aggregated gradient.
The authors show that the error defined by the difference between both aggregations (the full one and the one defined by the subset) can be upper bounded by a supermodular function.
Therefore, minimizing this function (subject to a single cardinality constraint, which is motivated by communication costs) gives an upper bound for the problem of minimizing the error.
The minimization of this particular supermodular function can be equivalently posed as the maximization of a submodular function, which has been previously studied in the literature (e.g.
Given this, the authors propose a variant of the federated averaging scheme, called *DivFL*, which uses the standard greedy algorithm to select $K$ clients to communicate the current value $w_t$.
They show that under the “gradient approximation error” assumption, the error between $w_t$ and $w^*$ decreases as $O(1/t)+O(\epsilon)$, where $\epsilon$ is a parameter of the assumption.
Finally, they test their scheme in synthetic and real-data sets against other methods in the literature.
[1] Ryan Gomes and Andreas Krause.
Budgeted Nonparametric Learning from Data Streams, 2015.
This paper presents a new client selection strategy for federated learning.
The key idea is to view the client selection problem as a facility location problem, where the objective is to approximate the aggregation of gradients of all the clients with that of a subset of selected clients.
A greedy solution to the problem is derived, and the theoretical convergence analysis is also provided.
Although the proposed algorithm ideally requires the gradients of all clients, the paper also introduces its practical extension that instead leverages gradients collected in previous rounds.
Experimental results on synthesized and real datasets show the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
This paper studies the use of diversity sampling (based on submodular functions) for selecting clients who send updates to the server in a federated learning environment.
As the authors show, this provides more efficient use of communication budget in terms of convergence and model accuracy.
The paper studies a problem of improving the efficiency of federated learning by selecting a subset of clients whose gradients are representative.
This is formulated as a submodular maximization problem, and the authors analyze a greedy algorithm for it.
This is evaluated through experiments on synthetic as well as real datasets.
This paper presents the problems in chaining nonlinear motor pattern generators and proposes a resetting mechanism inspired by the thalamo-cortical network.
The authors seek to use a small RNN to generate extended, time-varying outputs given a cue indicating which output to generate.
They focus on the problem of generating a sequence of outputs, cued in series, without the end state of one interfering with the subsequently cued trajectory.
They show that small vanilla RNNs do not readily perform this task: RNNs at a random state can generate a sequence when cued, but they fail to do so when their state is at the end point of another sequence.
The authors then show that by biasing the activity of the network towards the origin in the absence of an input (which they suggest is inspired by neuroscience), RNNs more readily learn sequences and more consistently generate accurate sequences in series.
My enthusiasm for the work is relatively low for a variety of reasons.
Primarily, the authors fail to test obvious alternative hypotheses of ways that the problem domain they design could be solved by a learned system, without the need to add the inductive bias they add.
Moreover, and more fundamentally, the relevance of such a small toy system (300 units, trained to generate just 10 trajectories) for machine learning is unclear.
The article proposes a biologically inspired architecture which increases the degree to which simple recurrent neural networks may be able to chain together elemental output sequences.
The authors show that the proposed "predatory module" allows networks to perform on par as if the network were starting from a set initial state, while also providing a smooth transition between motifs.
The two transformer blocks attends to each other to produce multi-modal outputs, which is then used for downstream tasks.
The authors that with the proposed architecture, training on all tasks simultaneously is better than training on individual task alone.
A multi-modal multi-task model is proposed for UI understanding.
It has an Image-Structure Transformer and Question-Answer Transformer to encode/decode image, structure and language information.
The method is evaluated thoroughly on 5 different data sets and achieves good results.
This paper presents a multi-modal Transformer for multi-task modeling of user interfaces.
It is potentially worthy to investigate how to incorporate multiple UI related tasks into a model.
The authors hence design a so-called Versatile UI Transformer model which involves three modals inputs to handle five unique tasks.
The paper revisited the performance of GCN on graph with heterophily and provide negative evidence that heterophily does not always result in the poor performance of GCN, which contradicts with the assumptions/observations of many previous papers.
They demonstrated that the GCN embeddings are still label-distinguishable on a special type of graphs with assumptions that the nodes with same labels have the same node feature distribution as well as the same neighborhood label distributions.
They theoretically analyzed the case of CSBM model with two classes, and also empirically investigated on synthetic/real-world graphs with multiple classes.
The conclusion is that GCNs can achieve good performance on heterophilous graphs under certain conditions.
This paper revisits the common belief in prior works, “GCNs require strong homophily assumption.” The paper claims that even under low homophily, if the nodes of each label have distinguishable neighbor label distributions, GCNs can learn distinguishable node representations.
This paper proposes a new model, called additive Poisson process, for estimating the intensity of a high dimensional Poisson process.
By representing the intensity as a sum of lower dimensional projections, the method can deal with sparse data while allowing for an efficient inference scheme based on the information geometric structure of the distribution space.
The assumed intensity form is motivated by the Kolmogorov-Arnold theorem while the estimation procedure has some formal guarantees of convergence.
The paper propose to apply generalized additive models (GAM) to learn the intensity of the multi-dimensional Poisson processes (PP).
This paper focuses on using generative models to improve multi-task learning.
The authors propose a framework that combines discriminative multi-task model and generative model, with a refinement network that performs scene classification on top of the multi-task network predictions to guide the learning.
The network uses weak labels and self-supervision for end-to-end training.
Compared with single-task and multi-task learning baselines, both quantitative and qualitative results show improved performance.
This paper proposes a multi-task network for pixel-wise estimation tasks such as semantic segmentation and depth estimation.
The authors additionally introduced an GAN-based image generation network, a self-supervised network and a scene category classification network (which was called a refinement network in the paper).
As an image generation network, any conditional GANs including SA-GAN and DCGAN can be used.
As a self-supervised network, SimCLR was used in the proposed network.
The refinement network classifies a scene category from the outputs of multitask networks (i.e.
estimated segmentation masks and estimated depth images).
In the experiments with two dataset, the proposed model, MGM, consistently outperformed the results of the baselines and ablated methods.
In addition, additional experiments with six tasks and high resolution images (256x256) were performed and confirmed the effectiveness of the proposed method as well.
This paper aims to improve the tail labels performance of the extreme multi-label classification (XMC) problems.
The paper propose LEVER, a knowledge distillation framework, that learns student OVA classifiers with binary relevance true labels and soft-labels generated by teacher bi-encoders.
The author claims that bi-encoders have better performance on tail labels, and hence using their soft labels as additional signals to learn the student OVA classifiers can help reduce the variance for tail labels.
Empirically, LEVER demonstrated consistent improvement upon competitive OVA classifiers on a wide-range of XMC datasets.
This paper investigates a novel factor, label variance, in the context of tail performance in extreme classifiers.
To address this issue, the authors propose LEVER, a knowledge distillation framework that leverages a robust teacher model to reduce label variance.
Experimental results demonstrate that LEVER significantly improves tail performance, achieving approximately 5% and 6% increases in PSP and Coverage metrics, respectively, when integrated with state-of-the-art extreme classifiers.
This paper introduces a graph classification model called MIRAGE, which is a graph distillation method based on frequent pattern mining.
MIRAGE takes advantage of the design features of the message passing framework, decomposes the graph into calculation trees, and uses the distribution characteristics of the calculation tree to compress calculation data.
Compared with existing graph distillation algorithms, MIRAGE shows advantages in key indicators such as prediction accuracy, distillation efficiency, and data compression rate.
Furthermore, MIRAGE only relies on CPU operations, providing a more environmentally friendly and energy-efficient graph distillation method.
This paper studies a new graph distillation approach called MIRAGE for graph classification, which addresses limitations in existing methods.
MIRAGE leverages the idea that message-passing GNNs break down input graphs into computation trees with skewed frequency distributions, allowing for concise data summarization.
Unlike traditional methods that emulate gradient flows, MIRAGE compresses the computation data itself, making it an unsupervised and architecture-agnostic distillation algorithm.
This paper presents a model-agnostic graph distillation algorithm for graph classification, which aims to distill the original graph dataset into a small and compact synthetic dataset maintaining competitive model performance.
It is pointed out that existing distillation methods typically rely on model-related information and need to train on the full dataset, resulting in poor generalization and efficiency issues, respectively.
To address these weaknesses, MIRAGE directly compresses the computation trees to synthesize datasets by mining sets of frequently co-occurring items.
This is inspired by the observation that the distribution of the computation trees, formed by decomposing graphs based message-passing GNN frameworks, always exhibits high skewness.
Therefore, it is possible to approximate the true graph representation by aggregating the root representations of only the highly frequent trees.
Extensive benchmarking demonstrates the superiority of MIRAGE.
This paper tackles the problem of summarization of books.
This is an ambitious task (that would have been considered unattainable a few years ago), as well as very expensive (because any annotation or even evaluation is very cognitive intense and long).
Very little research is done in that area so far, and most of it is based on automatically scraped material.
This paper addresses the problem of book-length summarization evaluation, which refers to documents with 100k+ tokens.
It identifies the following main challenges: 1) the problem of data contamination, that is, most books are already in the pre-training data of large language models; 2) the lack reliable automatic metrics.
To solve the first issue, the authors collect a dataset set of 100 recently published books.
To address the second issue, they generate summaries for each book with GPT-4, and then ask humans to identify and classify coherence errors such as "entity omission", "causal omission", and "duplication".
Then, to automate this process, they prompt GPT-4 to classify sentences in summaries according to the same coherence error taxonomy, and they find the precision of GPT-4 is similar to the human annotators.
The coherence annotation by GPT-4 is the basis of BooooKScore, a reference-free automatic metric counts the fraction of sentences in summaries that are free from coherence issues.
Finally, the paper evaluates summaries generated by GPT-4, Claude 2, and LLama-2-7B using two techniques: hierarchical merging and incremental updating.
They find that GPT-4 and Claude 2 summaries are more coherent and that hierarchical merging also results in more coherent summaries, but at a cost of detail.
The paper studies the expressiveness of different GNN variants from a probabilistic inference perspective.
Specifically, under certain settings of PGMs and different ways to measure their complexity, the paper studies to what extent MPNNs can approximate node and edge marginals which are obtained from local minima of Bethe approximation.
The analysis is also extended to other GNN variants.
To equip GNNs with the power of estimating more complex node and edge marginals, phantom nodes and edges are proposed respectively, and experiments are conducted on several node and link prediction datasets to evaluate the proposed methods.
This paper delves into the expressive power of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) within the context of approximate inference in graphical models, going beyond the common association of GNNs with graph convolutions and Weisfeiler-Lehman (WL) graph isomorphism tests.
The paper challenges the prevailing notion that GNNs necessitate integration with graphical models to enhance their probabilistic inference capacity, asserting that GNNs intrinsically possess robust approximation capabilities for posterior distributions.
The research introduces a new expressive power hierarchy using Markov Random Fields (MRFs) with increasingly complex distributions and inference targets, providing insights into various GNN variants, including MPNNs, higher-order GNNs, subgraph GNNs, and labeling tricks in the contexts of node classification and link prediction.
Furthermore, the paper presents a systematic framework for extending the capabilities of GNNs in modeling complex distributions and inference targets, with a particular focus on phantom nodes and phantom edges, showcasing their empirical improvements in real-world applications of GNNs.
The paper studies the expressivity of the Graph neural networks from the perspective of probabilistic graphical methods.
Although multiple works have previously established connections between GNNs and PGMs, this paper studies it from the perspective of expressive power of the GNNs.
After formulating the correspondence between WL power with PGMs, the authors present several results in providing a new perspective of seeing the expressivity of GNNs in its ability to learn the complex higher-order distributions formalized as clique based MRFs.
The paper proposes a new approach to evaluate the expressive power of graph neural networks from a probabilistic perspective instead of Weisfeiler-Lehman (WL) tests, which are generally used for evaluating the expressiveness of GNNs.
By introducing the central inference problems of probabilistic graphical models (PGMs), the authors analyze GNNs.
In addition, the authors design two methods (phantom nodes and phantom edges) for the expressive power.
The authors report a slate of new theoretical results regarding the expressive power of a variety of GNNs w.r.t.
Utilizing this theoretical basis, they then propose a novel extension of MPNNs utilizing so-called "phantom nodes/edges".
These proposed algorithms are tested using synthetic and real world data, comparing against state-of-the-art algorithms.
In node classification tasks, the phantom node lifting method improved state of the art when applied on GCN, and compared well to recent works when utilized with SAGE and GCNII methodologies.
In link prediction, phantom edges proved to improve all compared results using standard datasets and metrics.
In summary, recasting GNN's expressibility via MRF, the authors were able to improve the understanding of MPNNs and used this probabilistic viewpoint to introduce a novel methodology that matches or outperforms the current state-of-the-art in standard tests.
This paper raises a concern about forgery attacks on current LLM watermarking methods.
To achieve the attack goal, a distillation-based strategy is introduced.
Experiments on three existing LLM watermarking methods demonstrate the threat of such an attack.
The paper investigates whether watermarks for language models, which allow for the detecting model-generated text, can be directly learned by another model without applying the same watermarking decoding algorithm, termed weights-based watermarking.
This has implications for using watermarks in open-source models and for potential spoofing attacks.
The authors propose two methods for learning weights-based watermarks without specialized decoding - logits-based and sampling-based watermark distillation.
This transfers watermarks from a teacher model to a student model.
Experiments are run with three different decoding-based watermarking techniques.
The results show that the proposed distillation methods can learn watermarks, but learnability varies across schemes and hyperparameters.
Lower distortion watermarks are harder to learn.
The authors demonstrate two applications of the findings.
For open models, learned watermarks will be removed by further fine-tuning, and they leave the learning weights-based watermarking that is robust to fine-tuning for future work.
For spoofing attacks, sampling-based distillation can replicate watermarks.
This suggests limitations of using watermarks for provenance.
In summary, this paper provides an interesting empirical analysis of the learnability of current decoding-based textual watermarks.
It highlights the potential limitations of text watermarks for provenance.
Their findings suggest the need for investigation on watermarks that are difficult to learn as a prevention of the discussed spoofing attacks.
The authors study whether language watermarks can be spoofed by training a student language model (LM) on the watermarked outputs of a teacher LM (the process is known as distillation).
The experiments show that all three surveyed watermarking methods can be spoofed when the attacker has 640k (watermarked) samples, each comprised of 256 tokens, and that the distilled watermark remains effective under different decoding strategies and has similar robustness properties as the teacher's watermark.
This work aims at interpreting the Dynamic Graph Neural Networks (DyGNNs), and proposes an innovative causality-inspired generative framework based on structural causal model (SCM), which explores the underlying philosophies of DyGNN predictions by identifying the trivial, static, and dynamic causal relationships.
This work actually identifies the subgraph via a masking mechanism.
This paper proposes a novel approach for interpretability in dynamic graph neural networks.
The proposed framework is demonstrated on both synthetic and real-world datasets.
The experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms the baselines (all baselines are for explaining static graph neural networks).
Another contribution is that the paper constructs a new synthetic benchmark dataset for dynamic graph interpretability tasks.
This paper proposed a causality-inspired generative model to explain DyGNN predictions by identifying the trivial, static, and dynamic causal relationships.
To experimentally evaluate the proposed approach, synthetic dynamic datasets are generated and provided.
Evaluations on both synthetic datasets and real-world datasets demonstrate superior performance.
This work leverages the power of meta-learning algorithms coupled with graph neural networks to find a shared representation of physical systems across various functional forms of Hamiltonian.
In contrast to previous work, here the focus is on obtaining a representation which is valid across different physical systems.
The performance of the framework is evaluated over a range of physical systems aiming to showcase its adaptivity to unseen settings.
The paper reports the performance of MAML applied to domain generalization over different Hamiltonian dynamics.
The performance gain by MAML is analyzed with multiple indices over different combinations of meta-training and meta-test data.
The key findings include the superiority of the meta-trained models compared to the pre-trained and randomly initialized models and an implication that by meta-learning, the representations obtained by the models tend to be more specific to each system.
This paper proposed a novel meta-learning method aiming to learn a unified Hamiltonian representation such that it can be generalized to unseen physical systems.
Hamiltonian Neural Networks were utilized as the backbone of the method for learning the unified Hamiltonian representations of different physical systems, via meta-learning pipelines of a variation of MAML.
Experiments demonstrated the proposed methods achieved lower relative error of trajectories and energy when adapted to different systems.
This paper presents a data selection algorithm for instruction tuning that selects data points where 1) the queries are complex (e.g.: in terms of the constraints in the request); 2) the responses are high quality (e.g.: helpfulness, creativity); and 3) the data points are diverse.
For diversity, the selected pool (initialized to be empty) is iteratively grown by adding points only if they are beyond a certain distance to their nearest neighbors already in the pool.
The data selection procedure sorts the existing dataset by the product of quality and complexity scores, and uses the diversity based selection procedure to select the points from the sorted set to a prespecified size.
The algorithm is evaluated by comparing Llama-13B models trained using the data selection procedure against existing instruction tuned models (trained on other datasets), and random selection baselines (trained on the same datasets of the same sizes with points selected randomly).
Comparisons are made in terms of AlpacaEval and MT-Bench, where GPT-4 evaluates the responses and human evaluation on a sample of 100 requests from LIMA's test set.
The algorithm outperforms random selection, and also other instruction tuned models based on Llama-1 trained on more data.
This work shows that complexity, quality, and diversity are all important for data selection in instruction tuning.
Based on the studies, it proposes a score-first, diversity-aware approach called DEITA to select the “good” data samples.
With their proposed learning-based enhanced data measures, DEITA shows better or on par performance with state-of-the-art LLMs with only 6K training samples.
The author introduces the Bellman Optimal Step-size Straightening (BOSS) technique, a method for distilling flow-matching generative models that enhances the efficiency of image sampling within computational budget constraints.
BOSS utilizes dynamic programming to optimize step sizes in a pretrained network and refines the velocity network to straighten generation paths.
In this paper, the proposed method has been extensively evaluated on image generation tasks, showing that it significantly improves resource efficiency and maintains high image quality.
This approach serves to reconcile the intensive computational demands of flow-matching models with low-resource availability, contributing to the sustainable development of artificial intelligence by reducing computational expenses and environmental impacts.
Flow matching is a powerful framework for generating high-quality samples, especially in image synthesis.
However, the computational demands of these models pose challenges in low-resource scenarios.
This paper introduces the Bellman Optimal Step-size Straightening (BOSS) technique for efficient image sampling within a computational budget.
BOSS optimizes step sizes and refines the velocity network to improve generation paths.
Experimental evaluations demonstrate BOSS's effectiveness in resource utilization and image quality.
It provides a sustainable solution that reduces costs and environmental footprints.
This paper targets the problem of detecting test set contamination of black-box language models.
The proposed method is based on two hypotheses: (1) the exchangeability of many datasets (distribution won't be affected after shuffling); and (2) if a language model is contaminated, it is more likely to find certain orderings of data samples than other orderings.
Then a statistical test is proposed to compare the log probability of the dataset under the original ordering to the log probability under random permutations on sharded datasets.
Experiments are conducted with one 1.4B-gpt2 model trained from scratch on 10 test sets, and the results prove the effectiveness of the proposed framework.
This paper studies the problem of identifying test set contamination in large language models, i.e., detecting that a test set is present in the pretraining data of a language model.
The main idea behind the approach is that for test sets that have some canonical order of individual instances (e.g.: the order in which the dataset creators release the dataset), the likelihood of the test set in that order would be significantly higher than any random permutation of the dataset.
Based on this idea, the paper proposes two versions of the test, one of which shards the test set and aggregates statistics over the shards to make the estimate more robust to potential biases in the model.
The tests are evaluated first by measuring their sensitivity when pretraining datasets are intentionally contaminated.
It is shown that they are highly sensitive when the tests sets are large or have been duplicated enough in the pretraining data.
The test is then used to measure contamination of the pretraining data used to train the Llama models and it is shown that the findings agree with prior reports.
This paper examines the issue of test set contamination in large language models (LLMs), referring to the phenomenon where LLMs memorize public benchmarks during their pretraining phase.
Since the pretraining datasets are rarely available, this paper proposes a statistical test to identify the presence of a benchmark in the pre-training dataset of a language model without accessing the model’s training data or weights.
The intuition is the exchangeability of datasets— the order of examples in the dataset can be shuffled without affecting its joint distribution.
If a language model shows a preference for any ordering of the dataset, it might have seen the data during pretraining.
The test on the LLaMA-2 model identifies potential contamination in the MMLU benchmark, which is consistent with the results in the original LLaMA-2 report.
The paper proposes a statistical test that given certain assumptions can indicate whether a black-box language model has been trained on certain datasets.
This is a topic of increasing interest and importance given the prevalence of pretrained models that are trained on very large amounts of data.
The authors first propose a simple permutation test and identify some weaknesses with it.
They then propose a more sophisticated sharded test.
The authors show 2 kinds of experiments: (1) They test on a dataset where they have injected a small amount of certain test sets to see if their approach can detect them.
(2) They apply their test to existing models such as Lllama-2 showing their approach can scale.
The paper connects several forward pass-only learning methods as biologically plausible alternatives to backprop, analyses their performance and error dynamics, and also proposes Hebbian and temporally local approximations for one of those methods.
This paper provides further analysis of the PEPITA learning rule, a biologically-inspired "forward-only" approach to train neural networks by replacing the backward pass with another forward pass.
In connects PEPITA theoretically to two other biologically-inspired approaches, namely an adaptive version of Feedback Alignment and Forward-Forward.
Additionally, the paper explores how the initialization of the feedback weights and applying techniques like weight decay, activation normalization, and weight mirroring can improve PEPITA's performance.
The experimental findings demonstrate minor improvements through normalization and weight mirroring.
This paper introduces model arithmetic, a new method for controlled text generation (CTG).
Model arithmetic works by solving for combinations of divergences between a base distribution and attribute distributions that may be full token-wise probabilities or classifiers.
Particularly, model arithmetic allows weighted linear combinations of such distributions (positive or negative) and a union operator which is defined to allow probability mass to come from either the base distribution or the attribute distribution.
The authors find the method works well for toxicity reduction, as well as for different attributes in a conversation model.
The authors also demonstrate that speculative sampling works with the proposed technique to increase efficiency.
This paper proposes an inference framework for composing and biasing LLMs without training on task-specific datasets, which may allow for more precise control of generate text.
Speculative sampling, which is a popular technique for LLMs, can also extend to the proposed method.
Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms several baselines on the task of toxicity reduction.
Furthermore the authors show that speculative sampling can be used to make this process quite efficient.
Experiments on toxicity reduction, topic control, and efficiency validate these properties.
The paper is well-written and unifies different methods under a novel framework that pushes forward new possibilities.
Results are less thorough than I would have hoped, but I believe this paper deserves to be accepted.
The paper begins by discussing the downsides of prompting as a method of controlling text generation, referencing past work that has shown that prompting is not reliable, efficient, or interpretable.
They then suggest that doing a kind of “model arithmetic” where different distributions are composed via an altered version of speculative sampling can result in distributions that match the original intention of the user, though how one decides on the arithmetic formula for models is left unspecified.
Necessary background is then reviewed.
For their first contribution, the authors describe a framework for weighting various predictions more or less depending on how ‘important’ they are for some externally defined purpose, as represented by weighting functions f_i.
They then prove that given that the sum of weights f_i is positive and independent of which token is being weighted, they can find a weighting that minimizes the KL divergence through a simple softmax computation.
While intuitive in retrospect, this is quite an interesting insight when framed as a method of control.
They use this framing and result to define Language Model Arithmetic as an arithmetic combination of different weighting functions and distributions that meet the previously described assumptions.
It is an elegant trick to first ensure that the weighting functions add up to a constant value to find an easy minimization, and then use further weightings to control what distribution is being optimized for, and the authors describe this method quite clearly.
Having described this approach, the authors show how previous controlled text generation methods can actually be expressed in their framework.
So far, the authors have only described linear combinations of different token-level distributions, but the authors also show that a binary classifier can be added to the optimization, since we can convert minimizing the classifiers value to a difference of two KL divergence terms.
This allows Language Model Arithmetic to further generalize past approaches.
However, it’s worth noting that in practice approximations must be used since the described theorems only apply when a distribution based on classifying _every possible next word in the vocabulary_ can be computed, which is generally very expensive since vocabularies are often in the tens or even hundreds of thousands.
To be fair, previous work with similar methods also had to approximate the full distribution by using only the top-k highest probability tokens, so while this is a flaw, it is no worse than previous methods.
Next the authors introduce the union operator for Language Model Arithmetic (and briefly mention the unused intersection operator), which essentially takes distributions Q_1 and Q_2, and expresses an optimization objective to maximize the probability per token under the max given by either Q_1 and Q_2.
This is achieved by attaching an indicator function to KL divergence terms, that is non-zero for Q_1 only when its KL divergence is lower for a certain token than Q_2 and vice versa.
The authors then move on to showing that speculative sampling, a method recently invented to allow sampling from a cheaper proposal distribution by validating from a target distribution and resampling where necessary, can be generalized to sampling from Language Model Arithmetic expression.
In short the authors propose to use individual terms in Language Model Arithmetic expressions as proposal distributions and target distributions that are chained together to sample from the full expression of the desired distribution combination.
This only works with full token distributions, but binary classifiers can be used at the first step to essentially limit the hypothesis space.
This creates a caveat where multiple binary classifiers can’t be chained together efficiently.
Experimental validation is done in three parts: toxicity reduction, fine grained control over text generation topics, and speed improvements from speculative sampling.
For toxicity reduction, the results shown in Table 5 convincingly show that by combining multiple of the proposed techniques for Language Model Arithmetic, toxicity in generated text (at least according to the given classifier) while achieving lower perplexities than previous methods.
The authors show that using large coefficients in Language Model Arithmetic eventually degrades perplexity, but show that multiple different coefficients still perform decently.
A more thorough study of sensitivity of Language Model Arithmetic to different coefficients and expressions would have made this set of experiments more convincing.
For fine grained controlled text generation, the authors show that over two different Language Model Arithmetic expressions, linearly increasing the strength of a component linearly increases classifier scores for that component over generated text.
The one exception is the “sports” topic, which is sigmoidal, but still shows relatively clear control.
While these experiments are positive.
I feel that they could have been shown and done more thoroughly.
For instance, three things I would have liked to see: - Accompanying perplexity graphs to the shown classifier results that validate whether the model continues to generate sensical text rather than just “football football football”, which seems like it may indeed happen at some point given the high perplexities in the toxicity reduction section.
- Only two different Language Model Arithmetic expressions are tested.
They are interesting, complex expressions, but one big question that’s left unanswered is how much fiddling has to be done to find the right Language Model Arithmetic expression?
If the complexity of prompting is replaced by the complexity of finding the right expression, then this is less of a win for the proposed method.
- It would be useful to see what happens when multiple lambda values are changed and whether interference becomes too strong after a certain point.
The results in this section are nice, and they are partially substantiated by being a generalization of previous methods, but they feel a little thin.
For the final set of results, the authors show that using speculative sampling makes the problem of evaluating Language Model Arithmetic expressions for generation much less onerous.
In particular, the metric of “model calls per token” is focused on (which I think is exactly the right metric, as it scales with model size).
The authors show that model calls per token is reduced with speculative sampling and that this reduction only grows with more complex formulas, which is a big win.
It seems that this is because successive terms in a Language Model Arithmetic formula affect the result less, as there is a limited distribution of options that will be possible given that some achieve extremely low probability under certain distributions.
It would be interesting to see if the order of evaluation could be optimized, since terms with large coefficients will likely save more time if evaluated first.
Related work that was not mentioned in the background or fully connected to the proposed method are reviewed, and the paper concludes.
The authors present a framework during inference time that can compose models together using arithmetic for controllable text generation without the need for additional fine-tuning.
They present proofs that seem to simplify prior controllable text generation algorithms and provide regions or ways to extend them effectively.
They show performance gains for 3 large models on toxicity.
This paper introduces a novel approach for addressing reliability bias in multi-modal test-time adaptation (TTA), a challenge arising from information disparities between modalities due to distribution shifts.
To investigate the impact of reliability bias, the authors conduct comprehensive analyses involving various multi-modal fusion strategies and state-of-the-art TTA methods.
The results underscore two pivotal aspects of effective TTA against reliability bias: dynamic information integration across modalities and noise-resilient adaptation across domains.
To tackle these challenges, the authors devise a self-adaptive attention module to facilitate reliable cross-modal fusion and a confidence-aware loss function to ensure robustness against noisy predictions.
Furthermore, this paper contributes two benchmark datasets focusing on multi-modal action recognition and event classification.
Extensive comparison experiments against existing TTA methods and imbalanced multi-modal learning methods validate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
This work proposes a method for multi-modal test-time adaption (TTA) in the presence of cross-modal reliability bias.
While there are numberer of works in test-time adaption, most of them focus on single-modality tasks and few works consider the practical multi-modal scenarios.
In contrast, the authors investigate the characteristics of multi-modal TTA and reveal the task-specific cross-modal reliability bias setting where the information between modalities is unbalanced during test time derived from the distribution shifts across domains in some modalities.
The authors conduct analysis experiments finding that the unreliable cross-modal fusion and noisy predictions hinder the robustness against cross-modal reliability bias.
As a remedy, this paper proposes a novel method dubbed reliable fusion and robust adaption (RFRA).
The idea of RFRA is straightforward.
A self-adaptive attention is employed to achieve reliable cross-fusion during test time and a robust loss is adopted to prevent the prediction noise from dominating the adaption process.
The authors experimentally validate their method on two new benchmarks against several baselines showing reasonable improvements.
This paper studies the problem of multi-modal test-time adaption (TTA) under the challenge of reliability bias, which refers to the information discrepancies across different modalities due to the distribution shifts between domains.
The paper proposes a novel method, RFRA, which consists of two modules: a self-adaptive attention module for reliable fusion across modalities, and a confidence-aware loss function for robust adaption.
The paper also provides two new benchmarks for multi-modal TTA with reliability bias based on Kinetics and VGGSound datasets.
The paper shows that RFRA outperforms several state-of-the-art TTA methods on these benchmarks under various corruptions.
This paper delves into test-time adaption under the multi-modal setting and reveals an interesting and practical challenge, namely, reliability bias.
In the wild, it is common that some modalities would suffer from distribution shifts compared to their counterparts in the source domain.
As a result, the task-specific information across the modalities would be more inconsistent, thus contributing to the reliability differences for different modalities.
Extensive empirical studies have been conducted to investigate the impact of the reliability bias using different cross-modal fusion strategies.
To achieve robust multi-modal TTA against reliability bias, the authors propose a novel method, dubbed reliable fusion and robust adaption (RFRA).
Different from the existing TTA methods that mainly repurpose the normalization layers to achieve adaption, RFRA modulates the attention module to achieve reliable cross-modal fusion during test time.
Besides, RFRA adopts a new objective function with desirable mathematical properties to combat with noise during adaption.
To highlight the necessity of developing reliability-bias robust multi-modal TTA, the authors construct two new benchmarks with different settings of reliability bias based on the Kinetics and VGGSound datasets.
Finally, the authors validate the effectiveness of the proposed method and give a deep analysis of the reliability bias challenge.
This paper presents an approach to minimize optimization over probability distributions by extending the principles of mean-field Langevin dynamics.
They propose two methods: (MFL-AG), a single-loop algorithm designed to achieve convergence towards the mixed Nash equilibrium, and (MFL-ABR), a two-loop algorithm that demonstrates linear convergence in the outer loop.
Furthermore, they also investigate various discretization methods and offer a fresh analysis of how chaos spreads, taking into account its dependencies on past distributions.
This research paves the way for more in-depth investigations into mean-field dynamics for numerous learning agents.
The paper considers the solution of minmax problems with convex-concave objectives (plus entropic regularization terms) in the space of pairs of probability measures.
Numerous problems can be viewed as particular cases of this.
There exists a natural Mckean-Vlasov type system of diffusions -- mean-field Langevin dynamics (MFLD) -- that should converge to the saddle point that solves the above problem.
The paper shows such a result for a version of these diffusions where the drift term is averaged over past states.
Moreover, particle approximations of the diffusions are shown to satisfy strong convergence rates: for instance, the approximation bounds are uniform in time.
Bounds for the authors' methods are given for "Markov games" assuming oracle access to certain functions and gradients related to the problem.
A small simulation study suggests improved performance vis a vis MFLD.
The authors considered the problem of developing a symmetric mean-field Langevin dynamics (MFLD) algorithm for distributional minimax problems with global convergence guarantees.
Based on the mean-field Langevin descent ascent (MFL-DA) dynamics, the authors proposed mean-field Langevin averaged gradient (MFL-AG) flow that replaces the MFL-DA drift with the historical weighted average; based on the mean-field best response (MF-BR) flow, the authors proposed the mean-field Langevin anchored best response (MFL-ABR) process.
Extensive convergence analyses were provided for both methods.
The authors also studied the time and particle discretization error and applied their methods to zero-sum Markov games.
Numerical experiments were conducted to compare their methods with MFL-DA.
Expanding on the seminal contributions of Chan et al and Olsson et al, this paper investigates the hugely important topic of the emergence of in-context learning in supervised learning via transformers.
Specifically, it starts with experiments about the concurrence of in-context (IC) and in-weight (IW) learning, in the spirit of Chan et al, but systematically deconstructs their findings in such a way as to expose several potential hypotheses for the mechanism responsible for the ICL transition.
The paper attempts to provide a deeper understanding of in-context learning of LLMs -- which is also related to the broader discussion about their "emergent learning capabilities".
To provide such an understanding, the authors wisely choose to abstract away many details of LLMs, and of the tasks that LLMs usually perform, and to focus instead on a simple experimental setting in which they can easily control or monitor whether the task is performed through in-weights learning (IWL) versus in-context learning (ICL).
Additionally, the data is generated through a parsimonious gaussian mixture model in which they can also control some important aspects, such as the burstiness with which certain classes appear in the sequence, or the rank-frequency relation.
Then, and based on the insights from the previous experiments, they design a very small (in terms of number of parameters) phenomenological model of an "induction head" that reproduces quite well the observed behaviors of the more complex attention-based networks used in the experiments.
This paper explores how and why properties of the data distribution control a transformer's propensity to use in-context vs.
in-weights learning strategies.
The authors design a synthetic, parameterized family of tasks that expose dependencies of learning strategies on the data distribution that have been identified in prior work.
They then analyze the behavior of models trained on these tasks to understand how the dynamics of learning give rise to different strategies over time.
One of the key findings is that models learn a shortcut strategy that enables better-than-chance (but suboptimal) performance -- choosing an answer among one the labels presented in-context, without regard for the inputs presented in context.
In a stripped-down model that maintains the qualitative behavior of the full transformer parameterization, the authors show how this shortcut strategy facilitates (but is not necessary for) learning of a true ICL strategy via an analysis of the loss landscape.
The authors propose ReVar technique for predicting model uncertainty at train and test time.
In particular, ReVar is notable for aiming to capture various different sources of uncertainty, including covariance shift and high label noise.
ReVar uses bi-level optimization to learn both a primary model f(x) and auxiliary uncertainty model g(x), which serves as an instance-dependent weight function for training data and an uncertainty score.
The technique is evaluated favorably against prior works, both on synthetic data and on real datasets for many tasks including calibration, data with label noise and selective classification.
In this paper, the authors propose an instance weighting methodology based on an auxiliary network that quantifies the uncertainty of the predictor subject to learning.
As the authors show, the method proves to be an effective means to achieve a more uncertainty-aware, and consequently better generalizing predictors.
The paper proposes a method which learns a weighting function for the cross entropy loss, enabling re-weighting of the terms depending on how difficult (in an uncertainty sense) they are to classify.
The method is learnt through a bi-level optimisation process, which is not dissimilar from a 'meta' training objective.
The authors demonstrate their results on several datasets using ResNet-50 architectures.
This paper considers the design of neural networks for simplicial complexes, which are more general combinatorial structures than graphs, but less general than hypergraphs.
The authors propose to use multihop aggregation schemes to build an architecture that is more expressive than the simplicial Weisfeiler-Lehman isomorphism test, while satisfying useful invariance, equivariance, and expressivity properties.
They also demonstrate the efficientcy of their proposed method, and its performance for a few different tasks in simplicial data processing.
The authors propose a class of simple simplicial neural network models, referred to as simplicial-aware neural networks (SaNNs), which leverage precomputation of simplicial features.
The authors theoretically demonstrate that under certain conditions, SaNNs are better discriminators of non-isomorphic graphs than the WL and SWL test.
Empirically, SaNNs are shown to perform competitively against other SNNs and GNNs on tasks such as trajectory prediction, simplicial closure prediction, and several graph classification tasks over various datasets.
The authors present a Simplicial Graph Neural Network, which considers higher-order structures in the input graphs.
In comparison to previous work, the features from k-simplices are precomputed without trainable parameters and only then fed into a GNN.
This leads to lower runtime during training since features can be reused in each epoch, which is validated by the authors theoretically and empirically.
The authors prove that their method is more powerful than the WL test and as powerful as the Simplicial WL (SWL) test, when it comes to distinguishing non-isomorphic subgraphs.
Further, they prove permutation equivariance, orientation equivariance, and simplicial-awareness.
The method is evaluated on trajectory prediction, simplicial closure prediction, and graph classification, where it is on par/slightly outperforms previous works with better training runtimes.
The paper describes an efficient, and effective approach for learning representations for simplices in a simplicial complex.
The central idea is that of using injective functions for aggregating simplicial features, as it ensures that the embeddings are unique.
The simplicial features are aggregated over upper, lower, boundary and co-boundary adjacencies.
The paper provides precise definitions and theorems and statements on the properties of the networks.
The proofs are summarized in the main body and provided in full detail in the appendices.
The method is further experimentally validated and shows that the proposed model (SaNN) is both efficients (significantly faster than any of the other baselines) and effective (performance within the uncertainty intervals on accurcies, or above the baselines).
This paper proposes a neural subset selection method based on deep sets.
This model is inspired by a theoretical perspective to include information from supersets to achieve better performance.
Experiments on common benchmarks show SOTA performance compared to several recent baselines.
The paper tackles neural subset selection.
In particular, they tackle the issue that current methods do not consider the properties of the superset while constructing subsets.
Their theoretical findings demonstrate that when the target value is conditioned on both the input set and subset, it is essential to incorporate an invariant sufficient statistic of the superset into the subset of interest for effective learning.
This paper investigated the in-context learnability of Transformers on discrete Boolean functions.
They showed that when trained in an in-context way, the Transformers can in-context learn some Boolean functions like conjunctions, disjunctions, DNFs and CNFs, while they can struggle on more difficult tasks such as parities.
They showed that when presented the teaching sequences, the Transformers show better in-context learnability and they can learn tasks like parities in this case.
They also showed that besides TFs, many other architectures show in-context learnability competitive to TFs on learning Boolean functions.
They hypothesized that TFs learn two distinct algorithms on some tasks, which I feel not that convincing (I will explain it later).
They also did some experiments on LLM and showed that the GPT2 architecture with fixed parameter, and many other LLMs can in-context learn Boolean functions and are competitive to Nearest Neighbour.
In general, this paper showed in experiments that the trained TFs can in-context learn some Boolean functions.
The experiments with teaching sequence is particularly interesting.
It's possible for me to update the score.
Thanks for the response from the authors.
I raised my score to eight.
In this paper, the authors tackle the problem of anomaly detection in graphs by introducing a novel approach---consistency training coupled with a learnable data augmentation mechanism.
Their method involves leveraging a simple GNN backbone that emphasizes edge-level homophily representation for anomaly detection.
By exploiting disparities in homophily distribution, the proposed model achieves enhanced anomaly detection capabilities.
Additionally, the authors introduce two evaluation metrics designed to optimize their innovative learnable data augmentation technique, guiding its effectiveness in data synthesis.
In their experimental evaluation, the authors assess the performance of their model across four benchmark datasets commonly used for graph-based anomaly detection, along with a private dataset.
The proposed model generally outperforms existing state-of-the-art baselines across three key evaluation metrics.
This paper has addressed the challenge of graph anomaly detection under limited supervision by introducing a novel model, which effectively leverages the abundance of unlabeled data for consistency training by incorporating a novel learnable data augmentation mechanism.
Furthermore, CONSISGAD exploits the disparity in homophily distribution between normal and anomalous nodes, enabling the formulation of a refined GNN backbone that enhances its discriminatory power between the two classes.
The paper fine-tunes a language model to automatically judge the output of another language model, either evaluating a single generation or a pair of generations.
(Sorry that I do not think I understand the core training and evaluation setup of the paper; either it is my reading comprehension's problem or there might be issues with the presentation.)
This paper aims to present Auto-J, an LLM that may evaluate LLMs.
This is in the line of LMs that are used to evaluate other LMs.
This paper proposes a generative judge with 13 billion parameters to evaluate the generations of large language models from real-world scenarios.
Specifically, the authors created a large collection of data among 58 different scenarios and guided GPT4 to collect evaluation judgements as supervised training signals.
Extensive evaluations demonstrate Auto-J outperforms many strong baselines and more analysis shows advantages of the proposed method, like reducing positional bias and generating more specific critiques.
The paper introduces a model-based reinforcement learning approach that utilizes a sparse representation-to-representation model.
The use of sparse representation aims to address the challenge of catastrophic forgetting in a reinforcement learning (RL) setting, where data generation constantly shifts.
The architecture employed for model-based reinforcement learning is Dyna.
The proposed method involves learning nonlinear sparse features and building a model based on this sparse representation.
To enhance computational efficiency, a method for updating model weights using sparse representation is presented.
Empirical experiments are included to demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach.
The paper presents a method for the online learning of a world model for model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL).
To obtain efficient updates to the world model, the world model is expressed as a linear combination of a set of spare features.
This efficiency allows online learning at a constant computational cost.
This paper focusses on extracting personal attributes of Reddit users based on the comments they left on a subset of reddit communities.
The methodology involves prompting SOTA LLMs
The paper presents the privacy risks of LLM to infer personal attributes from user-written text.
Empirical results show that the current LLM can infer a wide range of personal attributes from text with proper prompts.
The authors show how LLMs (trained with information across the information) can utilize syntactic cues in written text to identify semantic (and personally identifiable) attributes of users.
They demonstrate the feasibility of their approach on a custom-curated dataset of posts from Reddit.
The paper discusses novel privacy threats resulting from inference capabilities of LLMs in two different settings :- - They show that LLMs can infer personal user attributes from their online activity.
- They also discuss how malicious chatbots can steer conversations to uncover private information.
Experiments on 9 state-of-the-art LLMs demonstrates their effectiveness in inferring personal attributes from real-world Reddit data.
They show that common mitigation methods like text anonymization and model alignment are currently ineffective at protecting user privacy against these attacks
The authors demonstrate how LLMs can be used as to infer sensitive information from comments and text, such as location, occupation, place of birth, education, etc.
The attack they propose involves prompting the LLM by asking them to be “an expert investigator” tasked with recovering these sensitive attributes from unstructured textual bodies.
They formulate two kinds of attacks: a passive attack where the LLM is fed this information and an active method where the agent is presumed to be assisting the user while simulatenously trying to recover personal information.
They try and mitigate their attack using a client-side anonymization method and via provider-side alignment.
In vision-language modeling, a significant challenge persists: bridging the modality gap between pretrained vision and language models.
This gap arises primarily due to the models' pretraining exclusively on unimodal data, leading to inconsistencies in their embedding spaces.
Motivated by this limitation and the computational costs of previous methods, this work introduces VLAP, a novel linear transformation-based approach that employs assignment prediction to connect vision encoders and large language models (LLMs).
By harnessing the established word embeddings of LLMs and introducing an optimal transport-based assignment prediction objective, VLAP maps visual data representations to LLM's word embeddings, aiming for consistent modality representation.
This not only results in visual data representations with the semantic richness of LLMs but also surpasses prior methods in computational and memory efficiency across various vision-language tasks.
The paper aims to align the LLMs (encoder/decoder or just decoder) with image encoders such that the LLMs can comprehend visual input better.
It further restricts the design space to freeze the original LLM and visual encoder, just relying on a cheap learned linear transformation.
To adapt such a transformation, the paper presents two learning objectives -- assignment prediction and image captioning.
Empirical results are presented on 3 different tasks -- image captioning, VQA and cross-modal retrieval (I2T, T2I).
The paper proposes a method to align the visual representations of pretrained visual encoders into the input space of pretrained language models, using a linear projection layer.
The linear layer is the only trainable part in the system, which is supervised by two losses: (a) assignment consistency - the visual features and text features are assigned to the word, and a similarity loss between the assignment results is applied (b) an image captioning objective.
Using this method, experiments are done on 3 tasks, including image captioning, VQA, image-text retrieval to show that the method outperforms existing methods.
Different variations of visual and text models are studied in the experiments.
Additionally, some qualitative visual semantic arithmetic results are provided.
The paper proposes a Boosting of Thoughts (BoT) framework, which aims to achieve the boosting mechanism that embraces aggregation and experience, thereby enabling the progressive refinement of unreliable reasoning steps (weak thoughts) by learning from errors to solve various problems, eventually.
The paper presents an extension of the Chain of Thought (CoT) and Tree of Thoughts (ToT) method, named Boosting of Thoughts (BoT).
BoT refines the problem-solving process in large language models (LLMs).
BoT harnesses error analysis to improve the LLM's problem-solving accuracy iteratively.
The "Boosting of Thoughts" (BoT) procedure is a two-step process that first generates a diversity of reasoning paths from a Large Language Model (LLM) in the form of a weighted binary tree, enhancing problem-solving by creating a hierarchy of potential solutions.
Then, it employs a novel aggregation strategy that iteratively refines and combines these paths.
Through best-first and greedy aggregations, BoT selects and optimizes the most promising chain of thought, using iterative feedback to progressively improve the LLM's performance on complex problem-solving tasks.
The paper reports improved performance on complex mathematical problems when tested with GPT-4 and LLAMA2, compared to CoT and ToT.
The paper looks at optimizing prompting for GPT-4 and Llama2 for solving mathematical problems.
They provide an iterative strategy to prompting models for complex problems.
The key challenges are SVAMP (1000 tasks), GSM8K (8500 tasks), AQUA (100 000 tasks), and MATH (12 500 tasks).
The BoT, especially when enhanced with CoT, outperforms alternative methods.
This paper proposes a new framework called Boosting of Thoughts (BoT) for complex problem solving with large language models.
BoT aims to iteratively explore many possible trees of thoughts and learn from ineffective thoughts/errors to progressively refine the prompt and elicit effective reasoning from LLMs.
It aggregates the best reasoning chains from the trees and analyzes them with the LLM to gain experience on errors and revisions.
Experiments on mathematical reasoning show BoT matches or exceeds previous SOTA approaches without needing human annotations.
The paper introduces TabR, a retrieval-augmented tabular deep learning model that outperforms gradient-boosted decision trees (GBDT) on various datasets.
TabR incorporates a novel retrieval module that is similar to the attention mechanism, which helps the model achieve the best average performance among tabular deep learning models and is more efficient compared to prior retrieval-based models.
This paper considers the problem of making predictions on tabular data.
The authors propose a retrieval-augmented approach where a predictor takes the representation not of the table being predicted but also the representation of the nearest neighbors from a training dataset.
The encoding representations and the predictors are training together and use straightforward architecture architectures.
The main result is that a combination of the carefully crafted techniques outperforms GBDT on an ensemble of tasks.
The training time is higher than GBDT but not unreasonable, and better compared to prior deep learning methods.
The prediction times are better
This work proposes a retrieval-augmented deep learning architecture for tabular regression/classification.
The model passes $x$, the row to be classified/predicted, as well as additional retrieval context rows, through a learned encoder.
TabR then retrieves the rows most similar to the encoded form of $x$, where similarity is defined as the Euclidean distance between the encoded versions of two rows, mapped through a linear layer.
The top retrieval candidates and their respective labels are then sent through some more learned transformations before being aggregated and combined with the encoded form of the row to be classified/regressed.
This combined embedding goes through more MLP layers to result in the output.
The paper goes through variants of the architecture and how each respective change impacts performance.
It then compares against other deep learning-based models as well as gradient boosted decision trees.
In both default-hyperparameter and tuned-hyperparameter settings, TabR performs well.
- This paper presents a detailed analysis of the effects of fine-tuning of large language models on domain-specific downstream tasks/datasets.
- In doing so, authors break down the probability distribution of a text into its fundamental factors i.e., topic, style and factual knowledge, and study the effects of fine-tuning on the probability distribution over these three factors.
- It has been shown that in the early cycles of fine-tuning, the language model easily captures the topic and style information of the underlying text data thus introducing learning bias, which ultimately leads to an increase in the forgetting of the previous knowledge.
However, the model is able to capture the factual knowledge in the later cycles of fine-tuning and also requires significant model capacity as compared to the model capacity required for capturing topic and style information.
- Extensive experimental evaluation asserts the claims made by authors and opens a new research direction in continual learning research.
The paper studies the effects of finetuning on an LM.
The authors disentangle the effects of the finetuning along three “dimensions”: topic, style, and factual knowledge.
To achieve that, they leverage ChatGPT to generate a series of texts that are only different in one of those facets.
Provided such texts, one can estimate log-likelihood ratio of different styles (for instance), by calculating differences of cross-entropies of the model on the texts.
The generated texts were verified by human judgements.
The experimental study is performed using two corpora (BioMed and C4) and three LMs (GPT-2 XL, LLaMa 2 - 7B & 13B).
The paper reports the following findings: (a) topic and style changing rapidly,(b) topic and style biases are independent, (c) topic and style require minimal capacity to be learned, in contrast to knowledge, (d) mixing in unbiased data only reduces the biases to a certain degree.
This paper dissects the effect of fine-tuning on learning and forgetting of language style, topic, and factual knowledge.
The authors use instruction-following LLMs to automatically construct corpus with controlled factors above.
The authors performed extensive analysis across different LM types and summarized several empirical findings, among which they show topic and style priors are easy to learn but factual knowledge is not.
This paper develops policy gradient methods using stochastic gradient estimates from the trajectories of play for computing in polynomial time Stackelberg equilibria in convex-concave games, most notably including a certain class of reach-avoid problems.
The authors also demonstrate through experiments the benefit of Stackelberg equilibria over their simultaneous-move counterparts in reach-avoid problems.
The paper considers the setting of convex-concave zero-sum stochastic Stackelberg games.
In these games, there are two players, a leader and a follower.
The leader's strategies constrain the feasible strategy set of the follower.
First, the leader commits to a certain strategy, and then, the follower best-responds to that strategy using a strategy that is feasible.
Previous work mainly focuses on the static version of that game where the utility of the two players is monotone (convex-concave games).
The authors define what is a convex-concave stochastic zero-sum stochastic Stackelberg game and then use some machinery from min-max optimization to solve the problem of computing a Stackelberg equilibrium.
--- I acknowledge that I have read and evaluated the rebuttal.
The rebuttal answered my concerns and reinforced with my initial positive assessment.
The authors propose a policy gradient method to solve the zero-sum stochastic Stackelberg game from noisy gradient estimates computed from observed trajectories of play.
When the games are convex-concave, the authors prove that the proposed algorithms converge to Stackelberg equilibrium in polynomial time.
In this study the authors propose the incorporation of mechanistic biologically inspired filtering and normalization components in deep convolutional networks (DCNs) with the goal of increased alignment of model responses to V1 neural responses and tuning properties.
The authors add center-surround receptive fields, local receptive fields, tuned divisive inhibition and cortical magnification to DCNs that are trained with downscaled ImageNet-64x64.
The authors perform an extensive ablation of the components above to show their relative importance for alignment with V1 neural responses.
The proposed best-performing model produces quite significant improvements on Brainscore's V1 model alignment.
The authors also touch upon whether the above models with high V1 alignment are more robust to perceptual distortions.
The authors study the representational power of transformers.
They quantify how the transformers are superior to other neural network architectures, as well as the limitation of the transformer architecture.
They focus on the $q$-sparse averaging (qSA) task which amounts to averaging $d$-dimensional input vectors over subsets of size $q$ over a set of size $N$.
They show by an explicit construction a unit of self-attention with $m \geq q$ dimensional embedding can approximate qSA.
Using tools from communication complexity between two parties, they show fully connected networks require $\Omega(Nd)$ hidden layers, and recurrent neural networks require $\Omega(N)$ bits of information.
They further show that standard transformers can approximate functions that intrinsically depends on input pairs, while failing to approximate functions that depends on triplets instead.
Finally, they propose a variant of transformers that can approximate the triplet-functions.
This paper mainly investigates the inductive biases of attention-based models.
They propose three computational tasks that show the limitations of Transformers, namely, sparse averaging, pair matching, and triples-matching.
Specifically, they analyze the representational power of embedding dimensions and show that the sparse averaging task scales more favorably in the input size as opposed to the other two tasks.
Various proofs are provided to support the investigations and conclusions.
This paper focuses on the representational capabilities of attention layers in transformer models and showcases both the strengths and limitations.
On one hand, the paper proves that attention layers excel at the presented sparse averaging task compared to RNNs and FNNs.
On the negative side, they have complexity scaling linearly in the input size for the triple detection task.
The paper theoretically showcases the strengths and limitations of the expressivity of attention layers, especially the role of embedding dimension of the attention layer.
This paper presents PIX2ACT, a method that interacts with GUIs using pixel-level visual representations and generic low-level actions, emulating how humans interact with these interfaces.
Unlike previous approaches, it doesn't rely on structured text-based data sources, but rather processes pixel-based screenshots, circumventing issues associated with obfuscation or misalignment in structured application data.
The model showed improved performance compared to human crowdworkers on the MiniWob++ benchmark for GUI-based instruction following tasks.
This work explores the possibility of building an agent that can complete tasks for users solely based on pixel-level visual representations of the GUI state and generic low-level actions, without relying on structured or task-specific representations.
The authors demonstrate the effectiveness of their approach on two benchmarks, MiniWob++ and WebShop, adapted to their general Chrome-based environment framework.
One of the main goals of intelligent agents is to interact with the internet in the same way that humans do.
Prior state-of-the-art models relied on both the DOM structure and the graphical user interface (GUI) to achieve good performance on web browsing tasks that involve following instructions.
In this paper, the authors propose a model that relies solely on pixel-based screenshots as input.
The model then selects actions that correspond to basic mouse and keyboard operations.
The authors use a pre-trained model called Pix2Struct and a standard behavior cloning and reinforcement learning (RL) framework to improve the model's ability to follow instructions and perform various web tasks.
The authors demonstrate that their pixel-based approach, which does not require access to DOM-related information, can achieve competitive performance on the MiniWob++ benchmark.
Additionally, they show through ablation studies that the performance gains can be primarily attributed to the pre-training of Pix2Struct.
**Update after rebuttal** I confirm that I have read the rebuttal and other reviewers feedback.
Authors have addressed my concerns.
The paper describes a system to perform pixel-based interaction with human-taylored screens based on GUIs.
The proposed system relies on a transformation to a text-based, structured representation of the screen and the screen tasks performed using a larger, pre-trained model of almost 300M parameters.
The proposed system achieves performance similar to human beings performing those tasks and SOTA using text representations of the screen.
This paper studies the suboptimality of Empirical Risk minimization (ERM) of the squared loss, or equivalently, Least Squares (LS), for convex function classes, in both fixed and random design settings.
In the context of non-parametric statistics, necessary and sufficient conditions for the optimality of LS are not known (though sufficient conditions were given by Birge and Massart, '93).
Roughly speaking, the main message of this paper is showing in both settings that the suboptimality is due to the bias term, where the variance term enjoys minimax rates, under some reasonable assumptions.
This paper explores the minimax optimality of ERM in terms of the bias and variance of the ERM method.
They find in some settings that the variance is always at the minimax rate, implying that suboptimality can only occur due to bias.
This paper also explores stability of ERM, finding that almost-minimizers are close to the ERM w.r.t the population distribution, but not necessarily the empirical distribution.
This paper proves that variance for ERM enjoys a a minimax rate.
The findings indicate that in scenarios where ERM is not optimal, the source of suboptimality lies within the bias component.
Furthermore, these insights are extended to encompass an admissibility-type theorem for both fixed and random design, as well as a stability result for ERM.
The paper's contributions can be summarized as follows: 1)Demonstrating the optimality of the variance term in both fixed and random design situations.
2)The obtained results automatically yield a stability result for ERM.
3)Presenting a simpler proof for the admissibility theorem in the fixed and random design setting.
4)Highlighting a counterintuitive outcome concerning the ERM estimator $\widehat{f}_n$: when $f'$ is close to $\widehat{f}_n$, it can lead to a large squared error.
The paper considers the Empirical Risk Minimization (ERM) problem with squared loss and shows that the suboptimality of ERM is due to the bias rather than variance.
This paper presents AMAG — a graph neural network for modeling and forecasting neural population dynamics.
The graph neural network has mechanism to describe the additive and multiplicative interactions between neurons, and a sample-dependent matrix to adjust the additive component.
Experiments are carried out on both synthetic data and real neural signals, in comparison with several baselines.
The paper proposes a graph neural network-based model to forecast neural activities, which advances the DNN technology for neural understanding.
It also proposes a method to leverage the causality structure of the signal into the moded design that generalizes the neural reconstruction task.
The authors introduce a graph neural network in their study to predict neural activity.
This network comprises a temporal encoding and decoding layer specific to each channel, with a spatial interaction layer positioned in between.
The inclusion of the explicit spatial interaction layer aids in capturing the underlying spatial relationships, as demonstrated using synthetic data.
The proposed model exhibits state-of-the-art performance in both one-step and multi-step forecasting tasks when evaluated on actual neural data.
In terms of the model-readout, it incorporates both additive and multiplicative operations, with both being necessary to attain the demonstrated accuracy.
This observation is supported by an ablation study.
This manuscript looks at time series forecasting in neural multi-channel electrical signals.
They propose a new graph neural network based approach called AMAG that infers connectivity between channels to improve the ability to forecast over competing approaches, most of which are designed to infer latent dynamics or predict relevant task related behavior.
There are multiple steps in this approach, and the entire system is trained to maximize multi-step prediction.
Experimental results suggest the ability to capture relevant connectivity.
The submitted paper considers fast initializations for k-median.
They proceed in a fairly natural manner: (1) Do tree embedding.
(2) Run simple constant-factor approximation on the tree embedding.
A cool advantage with their simple algorithm on the tree embedding is that the authors show that they can make the initialization differentially private (DP); to me that's the main additive value of the paper.
They can then combine the above algorithm to with a DP local search to shave off a log(n) factor in the additive error of the the previous best results for DP k-median algorithms under general metrics.
(The improved bound is basically obtained because they can now run the local search algorithm with fewer number of iterations).
They also perform an experimental comparison with their method compared to k-means++ where they perform favorably.
The paper considers the problem of finding good initializations for k-median clustering algorithms with and without differential privacy.
To this end, the authors propose NDP-HST and DP-HST, two methods based on Hierarchically Well-Separated Trees to find a good initialization of k points.
The theoretical approximation guarantees are analyzed and compared to existing works.
HST methods are then compared to kmedian++ and random initialization on MNIST and random graph-based datasets.
This paper approaches the binding problem in text to image diffusion models that is marked by the inability of the models to appropriately identify which modifiers are attached to which nouns in the input text.
This often results either in images that mix up the attributes of the different nouns that are mentioned in the text or in images that completely disregard some of the attributes or fall back to statistically likely combinations that are not mentioned in the text.
The paper proposes an inference time optimization based on first identifying which modifiers are associated with which nouns, and then optimizing a loss function that explicitly enforces the cross attention matrices of corresponding (i.e.
related by modifier-noun relationship) tokens in the text to be similar, while those of every other pair in the sentence to be dissimilar.
This results in a diffusion model that adheres more faithfully to the input text and produces images that are deemed better more often than competing baseline approaches that attack the same problem.
This paper presents an approach called “SynGen” to improve attribute binding between nouns and their modifiers for text-to-image latent diffusion models, specifically Stable Diffusion.
They propose a two-part loss on attention maps that (1) encourages attention maps of nouns and their modifiers to be similar, and (2) encourages attention maps between the noun/modifier to be different from those of other tokens in the prompt.
Datasets and baselines: They run experiments on three datasets: the attribute binding contrast set (ABC-6K) from the Structured Diffusion (baseline 1) paper, data from the Attend-and-Excite (baseline 2), and a newly proposed challenge set called Diverse Visual Modifier Prompts.
Evaluation: (1) Human evals for concept separation and visual appeal.
They find that SynGen outperforms baselines.
(2) Qualitative analysis with sample prompts and generations for Syngen and the two baselines, demonstrating that SynGen overcomes failure cases of the other two models.
(3) Ablations on the loss components and loss weighting.
The paper focuses on attribute binding/leak/neglect problems in text-to-image models.
The authors propose, SynGen, a method that utilizes dependency trees combined with cross-attention map optimization to achieve better attribute binding results.
Extensive experiments are conducted to show the effectiveness of SynGen compared to previous methods.
The paper identifies new phenomena involving the dynamics of the sharpness (largest eigenvalue of the Hessian) in the early stages of neural net training, for ReLU nets of various architectures that are initialized using He initialization.
Previously, it was known that for very wide networks, there are two 'phases' in hyperparameter space: on the one hand, if the step size exceeds 2/(initial sharpness), then a "catapult" occurs ( and the sharpness drops; on the other hand, if the step size is below this threshold, then the sharpness remains at its initial value.
This paper fills in the picture for _narrow_ nets.
For these nets, the paper shows that the sharpness decreases at the beginning of training even when the step size is less than 2/(initial sharpness).
As a consequence, the train loss does not spike even when the step size is bigger than 2/(initial sharpness), since the sharpness drops first.
Only for larger learning rates does the train loss initially spike.
Then, for still larger learning rates, the paper shows the _sharpness_ also spikes (which the paper calls a "sharpness catapult"), which has not been observed previously.
For several architectures, the paper draws phase diagrams depicting which learning rates cause which behavior.
The paper then investigates connections to the loss connectivity literature, finding that only very large learning rates result in a barrier in the loss landscape (and that not every catapult results in a barrier).
The paper then investigates the role of initial network output, finding that initial sharpness reduction goes away if the network is made to output zero at initialization.
The paper finally reproduces all of these phenomena analytically in a simplified model (the u-v model from the catapult paper).
This work mainly investigates the learning dynamics depending on the learning rate and categorizes its qualitative behaviors in some phases.
In particular, the authors identify new phases; sharpness reduction, and loss-sharpness catapult.
They investigate the dependence of the critical learning rates (mainly, $c_{class}, c_{sharp}, c_{max}$ and $c_{barrier}$) on the width, depth & loss type, and try to identify a universal relationship between them.
Their empirical observations in some deep neural networks are also confirmed in a simple linear network and the obtained phase diagram is expected to hold in various situations.
The paper studies the effect of depth, width and learning rate on the early training dynamics of DNNs.
The authors first describe four phases throughout, and then focus on the first two phases.
In the first phase, they identify three ranges of learning rates, according to how they affect the evolution of the training loss and the sharpness of the loss in the first few training steps: - for small learning rates both loss and sharpness decrease monotonically.
Surprisingly, this regime extends to learning rates that are larger than the traditional threshold of $2 / \lambda_{max}$ which guarantees a close match of GD to GF.
- For larger learning rates, the loss is non-monotone but the sharpness still decreases.
- For yet larger learning rates, both the loss and sharpness are non-monotone.
Any larger learning rates lead to divergence.
In general larger depths $d$ and smaller widths $w$ shifts these regime to larger values of the learning rate.
In the second phase, the sharpness settles to some value.
For small learning rates $\eta$, this value is roughly constant w.r.t.
$\eta$ (but which depends on the width), but for large $\eta$ the sharpness decreases and settles to a value which seems to be independent of the width.
The simple model of a shallow linear network with one datapoint and one dimensional inputs and outputs is studied, and the qualitative features described above are recovered.
This paper analyzes IP in active testing and OMP in sparse signal processing, and establishes connections between the two algorithms.
Specifically, IP with a specific configuration can be reduced to OMP up to a normalization, called IP-OMP, and has similar performances as OMP.
The paper also proposes to use the IP-OMP algorithm to reduce the computational complexity of IP, and demonstrates its efficiency improvement over variational IP in explainable visual classification,
This paper establishes an intriguing connection between the novel method of Information Pursuit and the well-known approach of Orthogonal Matching Pursuit, foremost used in Compressed Sensing.
It then uses this connection for a novel approach to explainability, namely to introduce an approach for visual classification based on queries which is then automatically interpretable.
Numerical experiments show the applicabiliy of the approach.
This paper provides bounds on the difference between the target loss and its surrogate loss, for two-stage learning to defer to multiple experts.
The bounds guarantee that a small surrogate risk leads to a small target risk.
The authors also show that in realizable cases, achieving the minimum surrogate risk results in the zero target risk, which affirmatively answers an open question.
The paper studies two setups of two-stage learning to defer with multiple experts and provides similar theoretical results for both.
Finally, the paper presents experiments using CIFAR-10 and SVHN, showing that having more experts improves performance.
The paper proposes two stage learning algorithms for learning to defer framework.
Learning to defer framework consists of two components, a rejector and a classifier.
Previous literature has focussed on jointly training both the classifier and the rejector.
This paper, instead, focuses on the two stage setup in designing learning to defer systems where a pre-trained classifier is provided and the rejector is to be trained in the second stage.
This is a promising and more practical use case scenario of the deferral systems.
To this end, the paper makes a series of contributions: 1.
a simple and elegant formulation of the the said two stage setup 2.
Proposing a family of surrogate loss functions for this setup as well as providing risk control guarantees based on $\mathcal{H}$-consistency bounds that builds upon the consistency bounds for the loss employed in both the stages.
The paper then prove a more general result on the $\mathcal{H}$ consistency bounds for general surrogate losses for classification problem which is augmented with some additional instance dependent hypothesis.
The paper uses this result to establish $\mathcal{H}$ consistency as well as the Bayes consistency of the proposed two stage surrogates.
Additionally, the paper also establishes the realizable $\mathcal{H}$ consistency of the two stage surrogates which is a more stronger property.
The focus of the paper is general where multiple experts are possible.
This paper studies a two-stage scenario for learning to defer with multiple experts.
For both the score-based setting and the predictor-rejector setting, the authors design a new family of surrogate loss function .
The authors show that the surrogate losses are realizable H-consistent and Bayes-consistency of our surrogate losses.
The authors provide theoretical analysis and empirical results to justify the proposed framework.
This paper proposes a method that can be used to infer conditional independencies in a Gaussian model.
These conditional independencies are related to zeros in the precision matrix.
Typically, sparse enforcing norms are used to estimate the precision matrix while enforcing zeros in the elements outside of the diagonal.
In this paper a Bayesian approach is considered.
For this a pseudo-distribution for the data is considered by taking the exponential to the p-norm.
The method is trained via variational inference combined with normalizing flows to increase the accuracy of the posterior approximation.
The variational distribution is tuned via simulated annealing and a temperature parameter allows to interpolate between the Bayesian and the Map solution.
This paper concerns the estimation of precision matrix under $l_p$ norm sparcity penal.
The solution is a variational inference through normalizing flow, which is a function of shrinkage parameter $\lambda$ and non-negative norm parameter $p$.
It allows for straightforward computation of solution paths for the intervals of $\lambda$ and $p$, and was empirically evaluated on two relatively small data sets.
This paper targets the structure learning problem in Gaussian Graphical Models via (Normalising) Flow-based Variational approximation of the elements of weight metrics that correspond to the Gaussian Bayesian network.
They use sub-l1 pseudo norms to penalize dense precision metrics (which correspond to graphs with numerous links) without imposing an extra high penalty for large non-zero values (which typically occurs if $l_{\geq1}$ is used).
This work proposed a framework for performing inference on Gaussian Graphical Models by approximating the posterior with a normalizing flow over PSD matrices.
In this way, the authors can investigate $l_p$-norm regularized GGMs for any value of $p$ in an efficient way.
The paper studies the problem of adversarial robustness in multi-class classification.
The authors show that a necessary condition for the existence of an adversarially robust classifier is the condition that at least one of the class conditional ditributions is "concentrated" in the sense that most of the probability mass is concentrated on a set of very small volume.
The condition of concentration however is not sufficient for the existence of a robust classifier, because one also needs the class conditional ditributions to be well-separated.
The authors then study adversarial robustness for the special case of data distributions lying on a low-dimensional linear subspace.
For this case, they show that robustness at any data point can be certified in a polyhedron that depends on the subspace representation of the point.
Using experiments on MNIST dataset, they show that the polyhedron certificate can be complementary to the spherical certificate one can get with randomized smoothing.
This paper gives a theoretical insight into the existence of robust classifiers for avoiding adversarial examples, which may be a potential direction for bridging the gap between human perception and machine intelligence.
Specifically, this paper reveals the sufficiency and necessity of data concentration for robust classification.
The authors conclude that concentration on small-volume subsets of the input space is the key to avoiding adversarial examples for machine learning.
In two experiments, the proposed theoretical results are shown to be effective in improving projected robust accuracy and certified accuracy.
The paper estalishes a new quantity for measuring the dependence between random variables.
The definition is similar to mutual information and sliced mutual information.
As (for rather obvious reasons) it takes values between these two existing measures, it has some desireable properties.
A variational representation further makes it better compatible with neural estimators.
This work based on existing ideas of providing a tractable independence metric for high dimensional random variables, the proposed metric named "Optimal sliced mutual information" (SI*) improves upon existing method of uniform slicing to an adaptive optimal slicing with scalability design in mind.
It has been shown that the proposed method has desirable properties to be a dependency metric.
The estimator is shown to be faster converging than previous MI both theoretically and empirically.
In addition, this method is applied on several machine learning tasks to show its effectiveness.
This paper proposes a new dependence measure based on the sliced mutual information with both the theoretical analysis and the modern machine learning experiments.
This measure is not strictly the mutual information but still could capture the correlation between two distributions.
The experiments are done in several different domains in eluding image classification, reinforcement learning.
Their main idea is to replace the original uniformly sampled slices to the one whose directions could be diversified over the whole sphere as well as mainly concentrates on the interested area.
This work presents an empirical analysis of the sensitivity of humans and neural networks to critical band masking.
This is the process of perturbing specific spatial frequencies, and determining which frequencies and at what magnitude, will lead to recognition errors.
This in turns identifies the frequencies/magnitudes that a visual system “filters out” or “relies on” when performing recognition.
The main finding is that neural networks are sensitive to a larger set of noise frequencies/magnitudes than human participants.
Further, the paper presents evidence that adversarial-trained networks are sensitive to an even bigger set of frequencies/magnitudes, and correlation-based analyses indicating that more human-like networks that are sensitive to a narrow set of frequencies (smaller bandwidth) have a bigger shape bias.
I have read the authors' rebuttal and will maintain my already very high rating.
This paper discovers a new fact (which should be replicated by others) about human vision: That we use the same frequency band for objects as we do for words and gratings.
It seems remarkable that this has not been tested before, but a cursory google search didn’t turn up any previous result like this.
Second, the paper shows that 76 deep network vision systems use a much wider band of frequencies than humans.
Finally, the paper shows that aspects of these frequencies predict both shape bias and robustness against adversarial examples.
This paper focuses on federated ATE estimation.
The main challenges lie in deriving valid causal inferences from decentralized data with heterogeneity, different data structures, and privacy constraints.
To address these issues, the authors propose a privacy-preserving estimator that allows incorporating site-specific covariate information and adopts an adaptive ensembling approach.
This method is more flexible and provides increased protection against model misspecification compared to existing approaches.
This paper considers federated learning for causal inferences using multi-site data.
The authors propose an estimator which is multiply-robust (to model misspecification and covariate shift) and privacy-preserving with additional nuisance function estimation.
The authors then provide theoretical guarantees for the estimator and show it is at least as efficient as the estimator without federated learning under conditions.
In this paper, the authors propose a multiply robust targeted average treatment effect estimator when the data is distributed across multiple sites.
The proposed method only requires transmitting statistics among the target site and the source site, without directly sharing their own data.
This paper studies an interesting dilemma -- literature reports that ensembles work better if you end up in different "basins", but pre-training often confines you to a single "basin".
The question is therefore, what should you do?
This paper answers that you should start out with a pre-trained model and _stay_ in the basin, but do so using StarSSE -- fine-tune once then fine-tune more times "branching" out from that first fine-tuned model.
The solutions can be ensembled and also souped (weight-averaged).
This paper studies ensembling in the transfer learning setting.
This is interesting because pre-training is important for strong predictive performance, yet has been shown to pre-determine the final basin in the loss-landscape after fine-tuning, reducing diversity.
The authors explore the behavior of snapshot ensembles(SSE), which use different training iterates as ensemble members, and compare them to Global DE (fine-tune from independent pre-training runs) and Local DE (fine-tune from shared initialization), for both supervised and self-supervised pre-training.
The authors find that Global DE is much superior to Local DE, but that Snapshot examples can start to close the gap.
They also do some ablations and find that higher learning rates in SSE's increase diversity but decrease overall performance.
The authors then propose StarSSE, where a single fine-tuning run seeds the initialization for multiple, parallel fine-tunings.
The results of these parallel fine-tuning runs become ensemble members.
StarSSE closes the gap between Local DE and Global DE further, and is more amenable to model souping than local DE..
This is a nice paper that provides a comprensive framework for diffusion objectives, giving the ELBO the driver's seat.
The paper shows that all of the axes along which diffusion objectives differ (elbo vs Ho-perceptual weighting, noise schedules, different parameterizations like x vs epsilon vs v) can all be seen under a type of weighted and importance sampled ELBO.
Moreover, the paper show that the weightings that don't exactly look like the original ELBO can be made equal to it under the right data augmentation.
Finally, the authors also present a few techniques for adaptive/learnable importance sampling distributions to help assemble all the aforementioned ingredients in a computationally efficient manner.
Finally, the authors show conveying results for image quality for ELBO trained models, whereas people usually result to non-ELBO trained models to do this.
The paper takes a systematic approach to address two important aspects of the implementation of diffusion-based generative models: the objective function and the noise schedule, both of which have been conventionally set in a relatively empirical fashion ($i.e.$, based on sample quality).
The paper first frames the noise schedule in terms of the log SNR $\lambda_t$ as a function of time $t$, then writes the diffusion model objective in the form of a weighted denoising score matching objective, Eq.
By doing so, the paper unifies the existing works as special cases under a generic form of the objective function with its corresponding noise schedule.
(6) is equivalent to a negative ELBO objective of noise-perturbed data (a form of data augmentation, controlled by the noise schedule $\lambda_t$)**.
This result has recast the ELBO as the class of objective functions for training diffusion models that are capable of producing high-quality samples.
This paper presents new theoretical insights on denoising diffusion objective.
Namely, training a diffusion model with a non-uniform weighting can be expressed as a weighted integral of ELBOs, and monotonic weighting results in training ELBO with additive Gaussian noise augmentation.
The authors also propose an adaptive noise schedule to ensure all losses are trained uniformly over time and show the adaptive schedule with a monotonic weighting attains SOTA FID on ImageNet.
This paper aims to use interpretation tools to identify unknown bugs in out-of-distribution (OOD) models.
It highlights the lack of capability to analyze features that cannot be sampled or identified in advance.
To resolve this, authors propose to train models that respond to specific triggers and evaluate interpretability tools based on how they can help humans to identify these triggers.
Authors propose trojan discovery as an evaluation task and present a benchmark with 12 trojans of 3 types.
It assesses the difficulty of the task through the evaluation of 16 feature attribution/saliency tools and 7 feature-synthesis methods.
Lastly, authors introduce and evaluate 2 variants of the best-performing methods.
This work focuses on uncovering a principled, objective approach to evaluating existing interpretability tools in identifying humanly interpretable attributes in image classification.
They approach this via the following synthetic task: 1.
A known, humanly interpretable trojan (a special patch, style transfer, a key object) is injected into a model's training pipeline, leading to a false classification by the model when the trojan is present in an image.
Different interpretability tools are applied to this model on an uncorrupted image to identify "interpretable features" that would lead to a misclassification.
An interpretability tool that performs well should ideally output something about the underlying trojan scheme, since this is a clearly interpretable feature that changes the classification.
The quality of outputs from these interpretability tools are compared by seeing which tool's outputs best help humans identify the original trojan scheme from a multiple-choice set of possible options.
A key challenge of this task is to find these trojan backdoors with access to the model alone and not to the adversarially corrupted examples.
The authors also propose two novel variants on the existing "robust feature-level adversaries" approach of [Casper and Nadeau et.al.
Robust feature-level adversaries are interpretability tools] to solve this task.
Their main findings/contributions are: 1.
The authors propose this trojan identification task as a synthetic benchmark for assessing the usefulness of human-level interpretability tools 2.
They claim that naive approaches like saliency maps are not useful, even with access to the adversarial examples, 3.
In a human study, robust feature-level adversaries and its variants are shown to be best at helping people identify the backdoor scheme, suggesting that these are the most effective interpretability tools.
No technique worked well for identifying style-transfer based, non-local backdoors.
This suggests that current interpretability tools might not do a good job of explaining "textural" features.
Adapting SotA LLMs to novel tasks is difficult given their extreme size, yet is generally more effective than in-context learning alone.
To address this, the authors propose “Cappy”, a scoring model (leveraging RoBERTa as a backbone) which is trained to score pairs of (instruction, response) for any task instruction and corresponding response.
Cappy is pre-trained on many examples of ((instruction, response) -> score); after pre-training, Cappy can be easily fine-tuned (because of it’s small size) to a given task and then used as an augmentation to LLM generation by acting as a ranking mechanism atop several LLM generated responses.
To create pre-training data for Cappy, the authors use the PromptSource dataset, training the model to predict 1 for correct pairs of (prompt, response) and 0 for mismatched pairs.
Additionally, the authors generate additional responses using a large LLM (e.g.
FLAN) and use the Rouge-L between the generated response and gold response as the regression target for the pair (prompt, generated response).
To test the validity of Cappy, the authors evaluate Cappy in isolation, with no additional fine-tuning, on 11 held-out classification tasks from PromptSource.
They show that Cappy consistently ranks the correct answer higher than many instruction-tuned LLMs, including OPT-IML-175B.
Next, the authors evaluate Cappy on LLM augmentation using the BIG-Bench benchmark.
For each task, Cappy is first fine-tuned, then used as a scoring function for multiple generations from a frozen FLAN-T5 LLM.
Cappy consistently outperforms the proposed sampling methods, most notably improving upon the LLMs own self-scoring and In-Context Learning.
Moreover, the authors show that Cappy can improve upon a FLAN-T5 model’s performance even when the LLM parameters are fine-tuned as well.
Finally, the authors present an ablation study of their proposed training strategy for Cappy, showing that both the overall pre-training strategy and using Rouge-L regression targets from LLM generations are important to Cappy’s success.
This paper introduces an auxiliary module called Cappy, which aims to enhance the performance of large language models.
Cappy operates by taking a task instruction and a proposed response as input, and it estimates the quality score for the response.
The training process involves creating a dataset that combines correct and mismatched answers with various instructions, and the Cappy scorer is then trained using a regression objective.
In downstream adaptation, the small scorer, Cappy, is fine-tuned on a small dataset that follows the same approach as the training set.
During testing, predictions are determined by selecting the answer choice with the highest score.
In essence, Cappy acts as a valuable filter that enhances the overall quality of generated responses.
The paper considers the problem of stochastic linear contextual bandits, and proposes an improvement of the classic LinUCB / OFUL algorithmic template via a more sophisticated construction of the confidence sets for the hidden reward vector.
The improvement comes from replacing the confidence ellipsoid used since the classic work of Abbasi-Yadkori et al.
(based on the method of mixtures) with a tighter confidence set based on what the authors call "adaptive martingale mixtures".
The authors eventually derive a confidence ellipsoid resembling the ones used by Russo and Van Roy, which enjoys the useful property of having a potentially data-dependent radius, and can also be turned into a confidence sequence very easily via an application of Ville's inequality.
Using two different methods (an exact convex solver and an approximation of the optimal width), the authors then turn these confidence sets for theta into confidence bounds for the rewards of each action, and use the resulting bounds in a UCB scheme.
The algorithms are then shown to outperform standard LinUCB in some simple experiments.
This paper studies the stochastic linear bandits problem and proposes an improved algorithm with sub-linear regret guarantees.
The improvement is achieved using a novel tail bound for adaptive martingale mixtures to construct tighter upper confidence bounds, which leads to a smaller regret than existing algorithms for linear bandits.
The authors also verify the performance of the proposed algorithm via experiments on hyperparameter tuning tasks.
A very well written paper introducing a slightly different way of constructing confidence sets for $\theta^\star$ in the adaptive regression setting.
The two main differences are that the paper bounds the norm of the observation noises $\epsilon_t$ directly, rather than the projection of the noises that features in the standard bound.
This is done by showing that the method of mixtures can be used with a suitably adapted sequence of mixing measures, and choosing that mixture appropriately.
This paper proposes a generative pretraining method to learn an instruction-following agent in Minecraft by fine-tuning the VPT agent.
It first trains an image-goal-conditioned policy and then leverages the foundation model MineCLIP as the bridge to map the language instruction into the image-goal space.
Using this method, this paper claims that it can solve any short-horizon open-ended text and visual task in Minecraft.
This paper proposed an instruction-tuned model for Minecraft, which turns previous RL model like VPT into goal-conditioned model.
The experiment shows that the proposed method can follow nearly any short-horizon open-ended text and visual task in Minecraft.
The authors try to understand the compositionality aspects of generative models by training a conditional diffusion model in a toy setting on synthetic data.
They show that the models indeed learn to be compositional if we train longer.
They also hypothesize that the sudden emergence of compositionality in the later parts of training is due to multiplicity of how the model learns the underlying factors.
They also show that it is hard to disentangle and generalize to new concepts if the underlying factors are highly correlated.
This paper proposes to empirically studied how compositional structure emerges in diffusion model.
The paper proposes the abstraction of concept graphs, and illustrates how diffusion models first learn to fit the training data before compositionally generalizing.
The paper illustrates how diffusion models have difficulty disentangling data and modeling low data concepts
In this work, the authors approach solving the Self-consistent Field (SCF) equation from a principal component analysis (PCA) for non-stationary time series perspective.
They shows that, the equilibrium state of such an online PCA corresponds to the solution of the SCF equations.
By doing so, this work is abled to achieve better convergence compared to the traditional fixed-point iteration methods for solving such equations.
The paper presents a new online-PCA based algorithm with some additional computational innovations to solve self-consistent systems.
They add a mode-switching method and delayed calculation to improve convergence issues.
The results are very good, but on a somewhat limited/niche dataset.
This paper explores online PCA methods for a certain type of non-linear eigenvalue problem.
This paper explores the phenomenon of models using easy-to-learn spurious features (aka, shortcuts) instead of reliable but harder-to-learn true features.
They find in their theoretical that max-margin relies on the spurious feature while controlling for uniforming margin induces learning the true feature.
With this insight, they try numerous loss functions that provide a bias towards uniform margins and find improved worst-group accuracy on a variety of tasks.
This paper provides an in-depth analysis of the phenomenon of "shortened learning" in machine learning models, especially in the context of perceptual tasks.
The authors confirm that basic empirical risk minimization (ERM) methods tend to prefer models that depend on shortcut features, even when models can achieve zero loss using only stable features.
They attribute this to ERM's inductive bias to maximize margins across all samples.
To address this, the authors propose an alternative loss function biased inductively with a uniform margin called MARG-CTRL.
The paper demonstrates that MARG-CTRL mitigates shortcut learning on multiple vision and language tasks without the use of annotations of the shortcut feature in training or even validation.
They also show that MARG-CTRL performs on par or better than the more complex and costly two-step shortcut mitigation method.
Having had my concerns addressed by the authors I have updated my score.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * The paper proposes an explanation for why neural networks tend to learn spurious features over stable fratures which lead to a lower loss and better performance.
* The main argument for this is due to the maxmargin losses induced through cross entropy, to counter this the authors propose several losses which induce a uniform margin.
* The authors propose a nice example and demonstrate the results on vision and language datasets.
The paper uses techniques from mechanistic interpretrability to analyze the algorithms implemented by pretrained ViTs to solve abstract visual reasoning tasks.
The authors use two synthetic same-different tasks: discrimination and relational match-to-sample (RMTS), to analyze CLIP pretrained ViTs, DINO pretrained and Imagenet pretrained ViTs, finetuned on these tasks, as well as a ViT trained from scratch.
Some pretrained ViTs, especially CLIP pretrained demonstrated a strong perceptual stage in the early layers, disentangling object representations, followed by a relational stage in the later layers, which implements somewhat abstract same-different relations.
The authors also demonstrate that the formation of only the perceptual stage is enough to solve simple relational tasks like discrimination, but not enough for RMTS.
This paper examines how vision transformers (ViTs) process visual relations, focusing on same-different tasks.
The paper finds that pretrained ViTs fine-tuned on these tasks often develop a two-stage processing pipeline: a perceptual stage that extracts object features into separate representations, followed by a relational stage that compares these representations.
Using interpretability techniques, they show that the perceptual stage creates disentangled object representations, while the relational stage implements somewhat abstract comparisons.
The paper demonstrates that failures in either stage can prevent models from learning generalizable solutions.
By analyzing ViTs in terms of these processing stages, the authors suggest we can better understand and improve how models handle relational reasoning tasks.
This work studies ViTs' learning behavior with relational tasks by experimenting on 2 same-different tasks: discrimination and RMTS tasks.
And the authors propose a dataset to analyze.
And discovers that there are 2 stages of attention processing of CLIP ViTs by attention scores from patches to other patches.
They characterize 2 stages, perceptual stage and relational stage.
The paper aims to answer how Vision Transformers (ViTs) perform tasks requiring visual relational reasoning.
The study focuses on two tasks: identity discrimination and relational match-to-sample (RMTS), showing that ViTs process information in two distinct stages: perceptual and relational.
Further analyses using mechanistic interpretability approaches were used to validate this results.
Overall, this work offered insights into same-different judgement which is intuitive to humans but proven hard for AI.
This paper aims to address the issue of generating biased data based on the training dataset for diffusion models.
The authors introduce a constrained diffusion model by imposing the diffusion constraints based on desired diffusions that are informed by requirements/constraints.
They propose a dual training algorithm to train the model, and characterize the convergence of the trained model.
Two constrained generation tasks are explored: ensuring fairness to underrepresented classes and adapting a pretrained model to new data.
This paper studies the constrained diffusion models, motivated by customizing the generation by specific tasks.
The idea is to formulate KL divergence-constrained optimization problem (U-KL), which is shown to have zero duality gap.
The convergence (rate) of the sampling process is given by assuming a mixture initial distribution.
Several experiments have been conducted, e.g., on MNIST and on the fairness.
This paper introduces an approach to modelling group actions using autoencoders, particualrly by learning these actions in the latent rather than observed data space.
The authors argue that this allows modelling a broader range of real-world scenarios, and does not require particular layers - however, it does require specific architectural changes (e.g., specific skip connections, and attention modules before concatenating upsampling path).
In practice, it seems that the main idea of the paper is to enforce a sort of cycle consistency on the decoder output (e.g., bidirectional consistency), with inputs the group action applied to the latent representation.
The authors demonstrate the effectiveness of their approach through experiments on image datasets, covering a range of group actions including.
Results appear promising, and good with respect to compared work.
This paper focus on learning group actions in latent space instead of data space.
The group action takes effects between the encoder and decoder in an auto-encoder structure.
Several tasks with different group actions are evaluated in the experiments.
The paper introduces a novel dimensionality reduction method called Neural Embedding Ranks (NER) for aligning neural dynamics with movement in brain-computer interfaces.
NER uses a ranking loss to embed neural dynamics into a 3D latent space that aligns with continuous movement parameters.
This paper leverages the PERM (Permutation Equivariant and Relative Margin-based losses) framework proposed in [Wang and Scott, 2024], and extends the implicit bias result of binary classification to multiclass classification.
Specifically, the authors extend the exponential tail property to multiclass setting, and proved that for almost all linearly separable datasets with suitable PERM loss, with sufficiently small step size, the gradient descent iterates directionally converge towards the hard-margin multiclass SVM solution.
This paper investigates the implicit bias of gradient descent on separable multiclass data using a broad class of losses termed Permutation Equivariant and Relative Margin-based (PERM) losses, which include cross-entropy loss, multiclass exponential loss, and PairLogLoss.
The main contribution is the extension of the concept of the exponential tail property, commonly used in the analysis of implicit bias in binary classification, to multiclass classification with PERM losses.
The proof techniques (and main results) are analogous to those used in the binary case, suggesting that PERM losses can bridge the theoretical gap between binary and multiclass classification.
The authors study the problem of multiclass SVM in the realizable (i.e., separable) case.
They show that under several assumptions on the loss function, the gradient descent converges in direction toward the (unique) solution of the hard-margin problem.
For that, they used the notion of Permutation Equivariant and Relative Margin-based losses (introduced elsewhere) in order to extend the notion of exponential tail (from binary SVM) to multiclass SVM.
They also show that three loss functions, including cross-entropy, satisfy the assumptions of the theorem.
This paper studies the problem of dataset generation for the digital task in the context of LLM.
The motivation is that the current data collection process often requires human annotation, which is very costly and not scalable.
As a result, the paper proposes using large language models (LLMs) to generate a synthetic dataset based on indirect knowledge.
The indirect knowledge often refers to tutorials designed for human consumption and observation trajectories that lack associated tasks and actions.
In contrast, "direction" knowledge consists of complete states and actions.
To generate synthetic data based on indirect knowledge, the paper proposes several methods: (1) writing a prompt to let LLMs imagine their missing actions or states given partial trajectories, and (2) randomly sampling the context from the external large-scale dataset such as webpages.
Table 1 shows the results that the proposed approach achieves the best performance among the baselines.
This paper proposes a demonstration generation approach for learning UI control by mixing two different sources.
The first one uses GPT4 to generate scenarios, grounded actions, and observations using WikiHow plans which is initially filtered by GPT-3.5.
Another data source is ClueWeb, form which the authors extract web pages, sample a segment for any page, and ask GPT4 to come up with scenarios and next actions.
Both data sources are combined into a single dataset of 50K traces where a program format is used.
A CodeLlama model is fine-tuned with the resulting dataset.
Results show that it achieves comparably when compared to other baselines, including a basic GPT-based prompting method.
Ablation analysis shows that program format is important, both data mixtures add value, and proposed dataset transfer to other benchmarks better than Mind2Web traces.
The paper proposes a method for synthetically creating a dataset of agent trajectories for navigating websites.
They propose using annotated programs, specifically python code interleaved with comments, as a representation of task and motion planning trajectories, where tasks are described in natural language in the comments, and actions are python API calls to the environment.
A dataset of trajectories is created by applying GPT-4 to two sources of data.
The first source is wikiHow, which contains ungrounded high-level tutorials.
GPT-4 is used to generate plausible trajectories consistent with the tutorial.
The second source is ClueWeb, which contains HTML snapshots of real websites.
GPT-4 is again used to generate plausible trajectories consistent with the website.
The paper finds that the resultant dataset of trajectories, when used to finetune CodeLlama-instruct-7b, outperforms open-weight models of similar sizes on Mind2Web, MiniWoB++, and WebArena.
This result demonstrates that finetuning on the dataset transfers well to tasks.
The paper studies model-based transfer learning.
In this setting, a model is pre-trained on the source data, and the learner aims to fine-tune it on the target data by running SGD initialized at the pre-trained model.
The paper focuses on linear regression and classification, aiming to generalize the assumption of Gaussianity to general distributions and investigate the scenarios where fine-tuning on the target data can or cannot be beneficial.
This work investigates the performance of the vision language model (VLM) GPT-4v and text-to-image model DALL-E-3 on multi-object reasoning tasks.
According to the literature, humans perform well on multi-object tasks because they learn a compositional representation of the world and use serial processing to dynamically combine object features, overcoming the binding problem.
However, in time-constrained tasks, they fail to use serial processing and rely on parallel processing, leading to illusory conjunction.
In this work, the authors hypothesize, without testing, that VLMs learn a compositional representation for the sake of generalization but are not compelled to develop a serial-processing mechanism.
According to the authors, this leads to failure in multi-object reasoning tasks, thus exhibiting the same limitations as humans in time-constrained tasks.
The authors test these limitations on four multi-object reasoning tasks: counting, visual search, scene description, and visual analogy.
In these tasks, the authors show that the performance of VLMs decreases as the number of objects increases, supporting the conclusion that VLMs are not able to solve the binding problem because they lack the mechanism to perform serial processing.
The paper puts forth the hypothesis that VLMs suffer from similar constraints as humans in multi-object visual processing, especially with respect to "binding".
Results from cognitive science show human constraints in numerical estimation, visual search, and relation identification when not able to do serial processing, which is required for "binding" different object features together.
The paper hypothesizes that lack of serial processing and binding in VLMs is responsible for failures in these tasks.
The paper gives experimental results that support this hypothesis.
**Summary:** The paper investigates the counting abilities of VLMs.
It puts forward a cognitive science inspired perspective, where VLMs are fundamentally constrained in their processing of multi-object scenes due to a lack of serial processing mechanisms.
**Decision:** The paper is well structured and investigates an interesting (albeit a bit constrained) question concerning VLMs object reasoning abilities.
While some of the conclusions seem overstated to me, I nonetheless recommend accept, since the authors present novel findings that improve the research community's understanding of VLMs visual reasoning abilities.
This paper considers the semi-random matrix completion problem.
Given an unknown rank-r matrix M, each entry of the matrix Is observed independently with a probability p_{ij} at least p.
The goal is to find a matrix close the matrix M.
The sap-based algorithm can achieve the nearly-optimal sample complexity, but is not fast compared to iterative method.
The previous work shows an iterative method which has a sample complexity and runtime has a polynomial dependence on epsilon.
This paper provides a fast iterative method that achieves the sample complexity and runtime with polylogrithmic dependence on the accuracy epsilon.
It has no dependence on the condition number and can also handle noise in observations.
This paper presents a new algorithm for matrix completion in the semi-random setting, where each entry is revealed independently with a probability at least $p = \frac{\mathrm{poly}(r, \mu, \log d)}{d}$.
The paper provides a promising approach for designing fast matrix completion algorithms that are robust to semi-random sampling, which is argued to be a more realistic model than uniform sampling in practice.
The insights may enable future work on more practical algorithms for semi-random matrix completion.
In this paper, the authors study semirandom matrix completion.
In their models, entry $ij$ of a $\mu$-incoherent, symmetric ground truth rank-$r$ matrix $M^{\star} \in \mathbb{R}^{d \times d}$ are revealed independently with probability $p_{ij}$, where $1 \ge p_{ij} \ge p$ for some parameter $p$ that is a function of $r$ and $d$.
The assumption that $M^{\star}$ is symmetric is not important, as we can reduce the asymmetric setting to the symmetric one with minimal overhead.
An important feature of this model is that the entry reveal probabilities are allowed to vary.
This contrasts against standard assumptions in the matrix completion literature which typically stipulate that the entries are revealed i.i.d with probability $p$.
Although revealing more entries of the matrix may seem to help the learning algorithm learn the underlying matrix, many algorithms fail under this helpful adversary.
This is evidence that these algorithms have overfit to a statistical assumption implicit in the problem statement.
A prior work [CG18] studied this problem and gave some recovery guarantees based on a global reweighting scheme for the matrix, but this algorithm has certain undesirable properties -- it is not a high-accuracy algorithm, it is not robust to outliers, and it has a dependence on the conditioning of the matrix.
The present work addresses all of these issues and gives a nearly linear time algorithm that achieves an $\ell_{\infty}$ recovery guarantee.
The main technical contribution builds off of a prior work concerning semirandom sparse recovery [KLLST23].
In particular, the algorithm tries to find a progress direction in each step that can be written as the sum of a "short" matrix (one that has small Frobenius norm) and a "flat" matrix (one that has low spectral norm).
This is chosen by a combination of dropping heavy rows/columns of $M$ that witness a large Frobenius error in the current iteration along with a fast reweighting algorithm that finds a candidate descent direction that admits the short-flat decomposition.
The fast reweighting algorithm itself is a Frank-Wolfe type algorithm over a set of valid reweightings and short matrices.
The runtime arising from this subproblem follows from observing that the set of valid reweightings is in fact a rescaled bipartite matching polytope, which means fast matching algorithms can be called as a black box, and implementing a separate algorithm to optimizer linear functions over the set of short matrices.
* [CG18] Non-Convex Matrix Completion Against a Semi-Random Adversary ( * [KLLST23] Semi-Random Sparse Recovery in Nearly-Linear Time (
This paper presents a fast prediction explanation approach for machine unlearning models that approximates traditional explanation approaches by using an neural network.
The network is trained with noisy labels (so called stochastic amortization) such that it learns to approximate the prediction explanations of various approaches, including Shaply, LIME, and others.
Experiments covers multiple explanation approaches from feature explanation to data instance explanation, showing effectiveness of the approximation.
In this paper, the authors introduce a framework termed stochastic amortization that can accelerate computationally expensive explainable machine learning (XML) tasks by training models with noisy but unbiased labels.
They provide theoretical analysis that shows that unbiased noisy labels allow learning the correct function.
Empirically, the authors demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on several XML tasks, including Shapley value feature attributions, Banzhaf values, LIME, and data valuation, achieving speedups over traditional per-example computation and improvements over simply using noisy labels.
This paper shows a construction for planting backdoors in the architecture of an autoregressive transformer model.
The proposed construction is a SHA256 implemented in the transformer as a compiled module.
The hashing algorithm is following a typical implementation and has been compiled to Tracr modules.
The authors consider two potential defenses to show that the trigger cannot be guessed by the approach and the proposed backdoor is more robust.
This paper introduces a novel approach to creating unelicitable backdoors in language models using cryptographic techniques.
The authors develop two main designs: an NP-complete backdoor and an encrypted backdoor, both implemented within transformer architectures.
These backdoors are designed to be extremely difficult or impossible to detect or trigger without specific knowledge, even with full access to the model.
The researchers empirically verify the robustness of their constructions against state-of-the-art backdoor elicitation methods like latent adversarial training.
They also propose a hardness scale for backdoor elicitation techniques.
This paper introduces a novel class of unelicitable backdoors in autoregressive transformer models.
These backdoors, secured by cryptographic techniques, evade detection and cannot be triggered even with full white-box access.
Empirical evidence confirms their robustness against current mitigation strategies, challenging existing pre-deployment defense methods in AI security
This paper develops novel insights into in-context learning and how it works in Transformers.
To this end, the authors propose a generalization of the modular arithmetic task explored in several prior works on grokking.
Unlike those works, the structure of the defined task is more rich, enabling an analysis of both in-distribution generalization (standard test evaluation) and out-of-distribution generalization (which is itself broken down into two variants).
This paper studies the emergence of in context learning and skill composition in autoregressive models.
They create an algorithmic dataset to probe how autoregressive models use tasks learned during training to solve new tasks.
They find that more training tasks lead to a generalizing / algorithmic approach instead of memorization.
* The authors propose a synthetic sequence learning problem that I would call 'in-context modular regression', an elegant generalisation of prior work studying modular addition and in-context linear regression.
* Using carefully constructed batches the authors are able to train transformer models to perform regression for a subset of tasks (weights) and a subset of inputs.
* The authors show that under some conditions on the data distribution and model architecture, the transformers not only achieve good performance on tasks and inputs included during training, but they also generalise to new tasks and/or new inputs.
The authors document the conditions governing these generalisation capabilities in detail including showing phase plots and observing that in larger models, the generalisation properties are transient (they appear and then disappear across the training process).
* The authors postulate a breakdown of skills required to correctly perform the task.
They effectively isolate and examine the abilities of their models to perform each component task.
They also inspect the activations of each head and identify patterns suggestive of partial mechanisms underlying the generalising behaviour of the models.
The paper studies the emergence of the in-context ability of the GPT-style transformer model trained using autoregressive loss and arithmetic modular datasets.
It analyzes the influence of the number of tasks, number of in-context examples, model capacity, etc., on the ICL capability of an appropriately trained model (i.e., using early stopping).
It also provides a persuasive “task decomposition hypothesis”, which is well supported by the ablation study and various experiments.
The white-box analysis on the attention heads provides convincing evidence of the proposed explanation.
Although there is a gap between the grokking settings (i.e., small model and toy dataset) and practical systems, the paper does a good job of explaining many important trends and concepts related to the emergence of compositional in-context ability.
I enjoy reading this paper and suggest an acceptance.
The paper tries to study the fundamental properties of fine-tuning DNNs and worst group accuracy in the presence of spurious correlations.
The effort focuses on revealing nuances that were not clear.
They conducted experiments with both 2 vision and 2 NLP datasets with spurious correlations and subgroup labels present.
Within the authors' setup, the experiments discuss the (1) impacts of class-balancing on group robustness (2) proposed approach to mitigate (3) model scaling's impact and (4) spectral imbalance's effect.
The subject of the work is over-reliance on spurious correlations, which can often lead to poor performance on minority groups.
The authors identify two failure modes of common class-balancing techniques: (1) class-balanced mini-batch finetuning experiences catastrophic collapse with standard hyperparameters on benchmark datasets, and (2) finetuning on a balanced subset of data can harm WGA when a small minority group is present in the majority class.
The authors propose a class balancing scheme that both discards samples from the majority classes and upsamples majority classes as a way to improve worst group accuracy/robustness.
This experimental paper proposes a UED method (SFL) for JaxNav, a continuous single- and multi-robot navigation task in a partially observable setting.
The authors document the shortcomings of UED methods, (Domain Randomisation, Prioritised Level Replay, and ACCEL) on this partially observed, continuous action, continuous state setting.
The authors provide a demonstration that the scoring mechanism used by the above UED methods is misguided.
Their method, SFL, uses a “learnability score” which focuses learning on levels for which agents achieve success rates closer to 50%.
To better focus on robustness and generalization, the authors develop an empirical CvaR measure of success for evaluation and comparison of methods.
This work proposes a new Unsupervised Environment Design (UED) method, called Sampling for Learnability (SFL), developed for navigation tasks.
SFL upsamples environment configurations with high learnability scores, i.e., p*(1-p), where p is the success rate in a specific configuration.
The paper highlights the failure of some of the state-of-the-art (SOTA) UED approaches on such tasks and argues that they cannot approximate learning agents' regret, unlike SFL.
They evaluate SFL in JaxNav, a Jax-based single and multi-agent navigation benchmark they introduce, and MiniGrid.
Their empirical results evidence that SFL is robust and can outperform Domain Randomisation (DS) and SoTA UED approaches in JaxNav and MiniGrid.
This paper presents a diffusion model for MRI acceleration.
In which, an autoregressive image diffusion (AID) model is proposed to sequentially generate MRI image conditions on a given prior image sequences.
This method is evaluated on the accelerated MRI reconstruction task using the public available dataset, fastMRI dataset.
The authors address the setting of ensembling, where the predictions of multiple models are combined to improve accuracy and form more robust conclusions.
The authors define a quantity η (polarity among agents within a dataset), and show both empirically and theoretically that this quantity is nearly constant regardless of hyperparameters or architectures of classifiers.
The authors present a tight upper bound for the error of majority vote under restricted entropy conditions.
This bound indicates that the disagreement is linearly correlated with the target, and the slope is linear in polarity, η.
Finally, the authors prove asymptotic behavior of disagreement in terms of the number of agents, which can help predicting the performance for a larger number of agents from that of a smaller number.
This paper analyzes the majority vote error of an ensemble of classifiers.
A new quantity called polarity is introduced.
The polarity of neural networks is analyzed empirically and theoretically, and stronger bounds on the majority vote error are derived based on the polarity.
Finally, the previously derived bounds are used to predict the majority vote error rate of a large ensemble from that of a smaller ensemble.
This paper focuses on quantifying the impact of number of classifiers on the error rate of majority vote decision strategy for ensemble classifiers.
They define the notion of “polarity” of an ensemble and use this notion to characterize the relationship between majority vote error rate and disagreement between classifiers in any relevant ensemble.
Empirical analysis over CIFAR and MNIST datasets shows that the paper’s method provides a tighter bound for majority error vote than other prior methods.
This work applies a meta-learning procedure for plasticity rule discovery to a neural network model of sequence generation.
Plasticity rules are constructed from parameterized basis functions, and the parameters are found through evolutionary search based on a fitness function quantifying how accurately the plasticity rules train the network to represent elapsed time within episodic rollouts.
The work analyzes the plasticity rules discovered in a variety of conditions: with noise, with synaptic turnover, and with plasticity enabled on excitatory and/or inhibitory neurons.
The authors investigate the development and persistence of intrinsic connectivity structures within a neural region without external input.
They propose that a local plasticity rule can lead to self-organising connectivity motifs, creating inductive biases beneficial for subsequent information processing.
The study focuses on sparse and sequential dynamics, as observed in the HVC region of zebra finches.
The paper explores which plasticity rules can organise and maintain these sequential dynamics using meta-learning.The space of plasticity rules is parameterised using terms based on activations and synapse size.
The coefficients and their time constants are adjusted to minimise the loss, which comprises three components: encouraging sparsity in activation, synaptic change, and improving the accuracy of time decoding.
Initially, excitatory-excitatory rules are considered, followed by inhibitory-excitatory and excitatory-inhibitory rules.
The study evaluates the efficiency of these rules under synaptic turnover and compares them to established Hebbian plasticity rules.
Evolutionary algorithms identified a rule resembling a temporally generalised Oja’s rule, which outperformed a multiplicative asymmetric Hebbian rule in the context of synaptic turnover.
The paper proposes a conceptually simple set-up to learn plasticity rules that result in neural networks that perform a specific task.
The set-up of the paper is elegant and made up of simple but effective elements, such as linear-threshold neurons and evolutionary optimisation.
The authors obtain some intriguing results, e.g.
that their method discovers plasticity rules well-known in experimental neuroscience.
This paper proposes a method for discovering plasticity rules in spiking neural networks to achieve sequence generation using both excitatory and inhibitory dynamics.
Rules are parametrized with basis function.
The biological approach in the model involves also considerations homeostasis and robustness to perturbation.
The HVC region of the zebra finch was used as inspiration.
The study shows interesting finding, including a self-discovered generalisation of the Oja rule, robustness to perturbation and enhanced stability, including homeostatic mechanisms.
The paper presents NeuralSteiner, a method to improve chip design routing by minimizing overflow.
Using a neural network to predict Steiner points and a graph-based algorithm for selection, ensures connectivity and reduces congestion.
NeuralSteiner outperforms existing methods, achieving up to a 99.8% reduction in overflow with only a 1.8% increase in wire length, and scales effectively to large nets without needing modifications for new designs.
This paper tackles the challenging task of global routing in VLSI design, with the aim of addressing the overflow limitation inherent in current learning-based methodologies.
The authors introduce NeuralSteiner, a novel approach that builds upon a previous method known as HubRouter.
Like HubRouter, NeuralSteiner divides the global routing process into two stages: the first predicts the locations of probable candidate points, and the second connects these points and pins with a focus on minimizing overflow.
In the first stage, NeuralSteiner introduces a new concept – the Candidate point, and generates an expert routing dataset using CUGR and ISPD07.
This dataset is then used to train a neural network for the point prediction task.
In the second stage, NeuralSteiner employs a straightforward and heuristic construction method that avoids overflow while ensuring connectivity.
The paper is well-structured, with clear motivations and easy-to-follow content.
NeuralSteiner effectively addresses the significant overflow issue in learning-based global routing, making it applicable.
Experimental results show that NeuralSteiner significantly reduces overflow, while maintaining comparable wirelength.
This paper presents a learning-driven approach for overflow avoiding Steiner tree construction.
The authors propose a two-stage framework that initially predicts the locations of potential Steiner points, followed by a post-processing algorithm that constructs the Steiner tree based on these predicted points.
The effectiveness of the proposed method is then evaluated through a series of experiments.
The paper introduces FactorizePhys that utilizes Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) to decompose voxel embeddings.
By integrating FSAM into both 3D-CNN and 2D-CNN architectures, FactorizePhys can estimate blood volume pulse signals from video frames.
Through evaluations and comparisons with state-of-the-art rPPG methods, the effectiveness of FSAM and FactorizePhys are demonstrated.
This paper addresses a pipeline to call adequate APIs among massive pools to accomplish users’ instructions.
For that, the authors construct and release the APIBench dataset that contains more than 1645 APIs, and propose the Gorilla model, which is a retrieval-aware finetuned Llama-7B model for API calls.
The proposed approach, Code Generation and Emulated Execution (COGEX), involves training LMs to generate pseudo-programs with some undefined functions and then emulate the execution of these programs.
This allows the LM's knowledge to fill in the gaps while maintaining a program like reasoning framework.
The COGEX model is adapted to new tasks through program search, optimizing performance across dataset instances.
The approach shows improvements over standard in-context learning methods, demonstrating that code synthesis can be applied to a wider range of problems.
In this paper, the authors present a fine-tuned LLM that reasons by generating pythonic code and executes it through the model rather than passing it to an external interpreter (CoGEX).
They also use the model to generate a set of candidate programs from a training set, among which the top-k performing programs are selected and subsequently used to evaluate the test set (CoTACS).
The model shows improved performance on several datasets against benchmark models without the pretraining, including with in-context learning and chain-of-thought reasoning.
Several additional analyses are provided for model efficacy, including the number of training items and sampled programs.
This paper proposes a means of training language models to perform semi-programmatic reasoning, along with an adaptation method based on program search to specialize the resulting models for particular downstream tasks without updating their parameters.
The authors use GPT-4 to generate programmatic reasoning strategies from Alpaca instruction-tuning examples, allowing GPT-4 to include undefined function calls as the resulting code does not actually need to be executable, only used to guide the downstream language model's inference process.
The authors evaluate their method by fine-tuning Llama 2 models on their version of the Alpaca dataset, then comparing benchmark performance against few-shot, instruction-tuned zero-shot, and chain-of-thought baselines on several tasks picked to represent both algorithmic and non-algorithmic reasoning.
Experimental results indicate that the proposed method outperforms the considered baselines across most tasks by a good margin.
This paper focuses on analyzing the transformer language models' learning and transferability on compositional discrete tasks.
Specifically, it has four hypothesis, and the author studies for a variety of language models, whether does these hypothesis hold.
An LLM can learn to perform a compositional task with constant number of datapoints.
An LLM can learn to perform a compositional task, given as many sample as the most difficult sub-task required.
An LLM can learn to perform a compositional task, given the data samples of relearning all sub-tasks for learning the composition.
An LLM can learn to perform a compositional task, given more data samples in H3.
The authors introduces a new benchmark for creating systematic sub-tasks and testing compositionally.
With LLaMA model, H4 holds; with both GPT-4 and Gemini, using H1 (prompting) fails to perform the tasks, or multi-round code generation with COT technique.
The paper proposes a quantization approach for fine-tuning pretrained data to new local data on resource-constrained devices.
In particular, the weights perturbation, gradients estimation, and weights updates are quantized to either 8-bit or 16-bit.
This quantization approach is combined with Momentum Guided Sampling, Sharpness-aware Perturbation, Sparse Update, and Kernel-wise Normalization to enhance fine-tuning performance.
The proposed approaches are evaluated on various AI benchmarks.
The results of this study indicate that quantized forward gradients are a good candidate for a fine-tuning approach that can be deployed on edge devices.

========== STRENGTHS (1144) ==========
The conclusion in this work can inspire futher works on using LLM for automatic evaluations.
A dataset with 3500 examples is constructed and can be used for futher research on this task.
This paper presents a new probing framework from the perspective of causality.
The idea is well motivated.
The proposed latent probing framework helps address some limitations in existing work.
The authors introduced the background of structural causal model in Section 2.
Some motivating examples and use cases are discussed and explained.
The authors proposed a very interesting idea, i.e., causal mediation analysis of probing.
- novel engineering design of the framework - thorough experiments demonstrating wide application - open-source, helpful resource to the community
The topic is timely: agents and the authors are straightforward about the paper is being an open source framework.
It is a fully open-source multi-agent transformation framework, facilitating users in rapid application development.
The high transparency of technical details aids in traceability and reproducibility.
The authors provide ample empirical results to showcase the performance of multi-agent conversations, aiding readers in better understanding the advantages and limitations of multi-agent systems.
Research-wise it serves as another piece of evidence suggesting that multi-agent collaboration might be an effective method to build successful LLM applications.
A solid open-source system that allows users to not only adopt pre-defined agents freely, but also to contribute more types of agents to potentially form an ecosystem.
Solid experiments covering multiple applications and various knowledge domains.
Effectiveness: The proposed method is effective and shows strong performances in both text-guided and unconditional molecule generation.
Well-motivated: Introducing molecular graph modeling in text-guided molecule generation is well-motivated.
- The paper proposes a novel method called 3M-Diffusion for generating diverse and novel molecular graphs from textual descriptions.
The multi-modal diffusion approach that operates on an aligned latent space of graphs and text appears innovative and well-motivated to address limitations of prior work.
- The experiments on multiple real-world datasets demonstrate that 3M-Diffusion outperforms state-of-the-art baselines, especially in terms of the novelty and diversity of generated molecules, while still maintaining semantic consistency with the text prompts.
For example, it achieves over 146% improvement in novelty and 130% in diversity on the PCDes dataset.
- The method is overall sound and novel.
Applying diffusion models for text-guided molecule generation is an important application.
- The literature review is comprehensive and effectively positions this work within the context of existing studies.
This work revealed an interesting observation: by incorporating safety principles directly into the instructions, MLLM’s safety awareness could be improved noticeably.
This indicates that the safety-awareness inherited from the textual safety training is indeed transferable to visual inputs.
This work proposed a training-free method to strengthen the safety-awareness.
The enhancement is quite significantly demonstrated by the empirical experiments.
And thus, the proposed method also does not hurt the model’s original capabilities.
The experimental results add evidence that a proper approach could enhance safety awareness of MLLM, which aligns well with real-world scenarios.
- The idea is evaluated with different tasks (brick world spatial reasoning, natural language visual reasoning, natural language navigation and spatial question answering).
The proposed technique provides another strong representation for performing spatial reasoning on LLMs.
* Clear, simple idea — that illustrates a more general point about natural language not necessarily being the most effective way to get language models to reason.
- I actually felt that this point could be more strongly emphasized than it is; perhaps including natural language in the CoT "distracts" the model with the fuzzier processes of next word prediction and/or makes the distribution higher entropy, while the CoS prompting is more formulaic and rigid and therefore avoids one or both of these.
It seems worth discussing these possibilities, and ideally investigating them in some way (see below).
* Strong improvements on the tasks evaluated.
- as a bonus, saves some compute/tokens.
* Some nice robustness & scaling experiments.
The experiments are clever and strong.
* Measuring recovery rates for different kinds of errors (copying, calculation, etc.) is interesting and well-motivated.
* Looking at error magnitude is a more obvious choice but also a good one, and the effect on faithful/unfaithful recoveries is interesting.
* Prompting the model to expect mistakes is also something that definitely should've been tried, glad it was.
Overall it seems like a strong study of a focused phenomenon.
(1) The paper provides a comprehensive analysis of error recovery behaviors in LLMs during Chain of Thought reasoning.
(2) The experiments are well-designed and provide insights into the factors that influence error recovery.
(3) The paper contributes to the understanding of the faithfulness of LLM reasoning and highlights the dissociation between faithful and unfaithful error recoveries.
- Very clear and compelling motivation that helps the reader understand the problem of creating scenario programs to model CPS.
- The processed AV DMV crash reports datasets is a useful contribution for the research community.
- The methods underlying ScenarioNL highlight some limitations of LLMs in out-of-domain settings and how to circumvent them.
* Interesting and ambitious application * Smart aggregation of tools: LLMs and CARLA visualization to produce a 3D generation * Partial evaluation that hints at a promising performance
They apply LLMs in an interesting, novel, and challenging scenario.
They thoroughly explore and combine many prompt engineering techniques.
Their results show that their final method (ScenarioNL) works very well, compared to single prompt engineering method.
They show that through careful prompt engineering, LLMs can be used to generate domain-specific languages that LLMs have not seen and little data exists for finetuning.
Advantage: 1.The problem is practical and the motivation is sensible.
It is similar to create a meta agent filter to construct an agent team.
Some previous works like MetaGPT also study this problems as well.
The techniques sound great, which utilizes methods from graph learni
Using T-FNN to dynamically regulate interactions between different agents and Introducing Agent Importance Score to measure each agent's contribution, reducing manual intervention, which is quite innovative in this field.
The idea of introducing Byzantine Consensus theory to achieve early stopping is very interesting and proved to be effictive through ablation study.
The author demonstrated the outstanding performance of DyLAN through various experiments and comparisons with current sota methods.
Solid Experiments: The paper provides a robust experimental methodology, demonstrating DyLAN's effectiveness across a range of downstream tasks such as coding, general knowledge quetsion answering, math etc.
It shows that cost DyLan can enhance the performance of the above mentioned tasks while keep low cost on computation with respect to reasonable times of function call.
The idea of DyLAN is novel, it trains a dynamic temporal feedforward network to select the imporatant agents, and the early stopping seems to be effective to reduce the cost on long-term conversation.
The ablation study is thorouh.
- The paper addresses the interesting topic of the use of LLM in academic writing.
- The analysis is based on relatively large data sets, and the analytical methods are considered to have a certain degree of reliability.
- While there are no major surprises about the findings, the authors have found a clear trend in the use of LLMs.
The conclusions make sense and are compelling.
The existing analysis seems well-done.
- Well structured and written work that tries to find evidence to what extent believes are actually modeled and therefore models have awareness of truth/falsehood - The different data sets allow for a precise investigation of possible factors without too many intervening factors.
The paper can be inspiring for the development of many more of such datasets.
The main reason to accept the paper is that it advances our understanding of emergence/grokking, both in the process-level sense of conducting useful new experiments and in the outcome-level sense of providing new qualitative insights.
The authors present their framework as a key contribution.
I am not sure I would have foregrounded the framework so much, since it is hard to see why this is the right/preferable way to conceptualize what is going on, but it seems reasonable enough.
I do not work in this area, so I will defer to other reviewers/the community in the future to see if this framework is worthy of uptake, but for now I see at as a second-order reason to be supportive of acceptance.
This is a clearly written, interesting paper proposing a unifying explanation for various prior observations about training and scaling dynamics.
1, To consider the long-context modeling works from a unified perspective is new and seems to be inspiring for the community.
2, a new method is proposed based on the analysis using the proposed framework UniMem, which seems to be effective.
The unified framework for existing long-context methods is elegant in math.
The proposed approach has some advantage on metric of perplexity.
**Strength.** Long-context language modeling is a popular and critical research topic today.
Given the quick emergence of new models and algorithms, systematic discussions in this field will be beneficial to the technical community.
The research problem is significant to the community.
The long-context LLM suffered from the unfair comparison between different methods for quite long.
The architecture design lessons and conclusions drawn from the experiments are very useful for other researchers.
It helps everyone working on memory-augmented LLMs to have an optimal architecture design.
The strengths of the paper are as follows: Strength 1: Overall the method seems reasonable, including several steps that would likely increase the quality of the data.
Strength 2: Experiments are performed over a variety of models.
Strength 3: I like the fact that human evaluation is done to verify the quality of the data.
- The paper is well-written, easy to follow, and clear.
- Synthetic dataset generation is an active research that is shaping the way we evaluate the learning capabilities of LLMs.
Therefore reduce the time and cost needed to manually generate new datasets.
- TarGEN can be used to generate datasets for novel domain-specific tasks with no existing instances.
- TarGEN has show to outperform other similar techniques such those used to generate Self-Instruct dataset.
This paper proposes a new reward model which can enhance LLM to generate "I don't know" answers to questions outside the model's knowledge boundary.
This paper conducts comprehensive evaluation experiments to compare the proposed reward model with Rule-based reward, SFT, and prompt-based methods.
The proposed method can improve the model alignment ability in generating truthful rejections and prevent the model from generating wrong answers.
- The paper addresses a clear problem with LLMs - The proposed solution seems to be novel and effective.
- The experiments show that the method makes the LLM more likely to reject difficult questions
Very interesting new solution for a very important problem in language modeling which might substantially improve LMs.
Thorough baselines + analysis
* This paper brings our attention to the issue of false refusals.
* The author proposes an automatic method for generating text for false refusals.
This method can be easily applied to generate more prompts to evaluate LLMs * This paper already provides a new dataset covering several categories of false refusals, with a preliminary evaluation conducted on a range of LLMs.
Overall, I think this work makes a positive contribution to the community.
While many work improve the successful defending rate, much less work put false refusal in an important position.
This work brings out an interesting direction.
A dataset are created for evaluating the above problem, with detailed labeling of the type and reason of false refusal, which may be potentially helpful for further study.
The authors present analysis to help understand the different categories of false refusal (including newly identified categories), as well as the balance between false refusals and successful defendings.
The studied problem is highly practical and important for developing safer and more user-friendly LLMs.
The PHTest dataset is a significant resource, being 10x larger than prior datasets.
A natural and fine-grained dataset can help identify the detailed drawbacks of existing LLMs and provide developers with insights on their capabilities, which is valuable for advancing the community.
The problem that LLMs refuse pseudo-harmful user prompts is interesting and important for user experience.
The authors generate a larger evaluation dataset to evaluate the performance of many LLMs on False Refusal Evaluation.
The writing is clear and the logic of this paper is easy to follow.
- Factuality evaluation in multi-lingual LLMs is an interesting and important research problem.
- The proposed method is simple yet effective.
- There are some interesting findings in the experiments, which are inspiring for future research on building multi-lingual LLMs.
- The paper is well-written, and the idea is easy to follow.
The paper adapts FActScore to a multi-lingual factuality evaluation framework, and experiment the method using 8 languages Providing insight about reasonably large non-English wikipedia articles can also serve as a viable source.
There are very few papers looking at multilingual fact checking in LLMs.
The field needs more of these.
The behavior of LLMs on ambiguous document-based QA has not been studied before 2.
Taxonomy of answer types with heuristics for answer classification
* The paper studies the knowledgabilty of LLMs and the factuality of their generated answers in a realistic setting.
* The idea is quite well thought and the paper asks the right questions and properly answers those questions.
* Multiple LLMs are studied so the results are more trustable.
- I found this to be an interesting paper, which tackles a relatively known problem in NLP (lack of robustness to AAE) with an approach that is novel within this area (synthetically introducing phonological features).
This is a important area of AI ethics, with recent work finding widespread LLM discrimination against AAE speakers, even leading to a higher likelihood of AAE speakers being sentenced to death by LLM judges [1].
- The authors do an excellent job in both the main body of the paper, limitations and ethics statement to address potential concerns around mimicking actual AAE speakers.
I thought the ethics statement in particular was very thoughtful, calling for representation of affected communities in LLM application development.
- They analyze performance across multiple tasks and models.
While I found there to be flaws in evaluation (see reasons to reject), I did think that their breakdown of effects on task performance from each of the phonological features was thorough, and potentially useful for informing future research on safe/non-discriminatory deployment of LLMs.
- I appreciated that they conduct a human evaluation to verify the quality of synthetic data with AAE speakers, which absolutely should be done in a study like this [1] Hofmann, Valentin, Pratyusha Kalluri, Dan Jurafsky and Sharese King.
“Dialect prejudice predicts AI decisions about people's character, employability, and criminality.” ArXiv abs/2403.00742 (2024).
The paper is very well written and the task is clearly explained.
The idea of extending LLM data with synthetic ones is very interesting and I think this is an approach that could be extended to other related areas.The ablation study clearly shows what contributes to the improvements.
The proposed method is intuitive which imitates the real teaching scenarios in schools.
The analysis of the experiments is detailed and convincing.
The paper is very pedagogical and the results demonstrate the benefit of the proposed approach.
### Pedagogy - The paper is, overall, very well-written.
- The paper does a great job of explaining the challenges of Scienceworld in terms of steps to achieve tasks, and convincingly justifies its relevance as a benchmark.
- Providing all the prompts used for the experiments is a strength.
It should be the standard of every contribution leveraging LLM agents.
### Robust findings and thorough methodology - Unlike previous approaches such as Reflexion, the authors also propose to emancipate from the gold trajectories provided by Scienceworld and use a zero-shot controller.
- The results section's organization in the form of questions offers clarity, allowing for a thorough assessment of CLIN's performance across diverse scenarios.
It effectively isolates the impact of the two memory mechanisms and sheds light on optimal memory structures.
The performance on benchmarks such as ScienceWorld and ALFWorld seems good, compared to other agent task planning methods like Reflexion, React, and Saycan.
The paper is well organized, the demonstration of the method is clear.
- Long-term memory is a fundamental direction for language agents, and the paper makes solid contribution to this direction.
- The idea makes sense and is tested in systematic setups across domains, environments, and tasks.
- Findings are interesting, e.g.
causal abstractions help more than free-form advice, the correlation of correctness and helpfulness of memories, etc.
Some experiments and setups can serve as the basis for future research.
+ The paper shows strong results over previous method (reflexion).
The authors demonstrate the performance advantage across various setups.
+ The paper is clearly written with structured flows.
+ The proposed prompting template seems to be very useful + The idea of four components borrows the structure from RL community and makes sense.
I think this paper presents an interesting idea and pushes forward the state of the art in open dialogue evaluations.
COLM participants and the research community will benefit from the ideas and results presented here.
2.1 The paper is generally well-written and easy to understand.
2.2 Extensive experiments are conducted and the results show the effectiveness of the method.
This is an interesting methodology to judge open-ended responses that can be useful to the community The paper is clear and easy to replicate The metric is thoroughly evaluated including against human raters, outperforming metrics from related work (except LLMEval)
The dataset seems to be a major contribution to Persian NLP.
The paper is well written.
Everything related to the dataset is clear, but I have some questions about the experiment section.
I appreciate the various experiments that the authors performed including benchmarking various settings like different answer extraction methods, the impact of translation quality, and how few-shot examples did not help on the given MCQA task.
The results showing that regex answer extraction outperformed the other methods was not surprising.
The idea of giving different role-playing instructions to different agents seems intuitive and well-motivated, and the method appears empirically effective at increasing creativity.
Additionally, although they are evaluating creativity which (I think) should be a fairly difficult thing to nail down evaluation-wise, the experimental setup and analysis seem reasonable and sound, which I think is a solid contribution in its own right (and could perhaps be highlighted more if the authors want to).
- The work is thorough, considers prior both in education and recent CS work seriously, and discusses the implications and limitations in a nuanced and realistic way.
- The LLM Discussion framework -- although somewhat evident -- is well constructed, particularly with the concept of the three phases of discussion: initiation, discuss & convergence.
- The human annotation seems thorough, and the release of the collection of judgments might be useful to others studying creativity in similar settings.
- The paper is generally well-written, and although some details are lacking, these can easily be resolved in a round of revisions.
1) Clever use of multi agent discussion and roleplaying in open domain NLG task 2) Good evaluation with LLM and humans and also showing correlation between each
Precise and clear overview of the fMRI data from Pereira et al.
(2018), which is central to the experiments in this study.
This is useful for the COLM community, which may be less familiar with human imaging data.
Experiments are thorough and robust, employing various models, paradigms, modalities and controls.
Clear and focused contribution of the semantic consistency measure, which is explained clearly.
The paper is very well written.
The novel method to identify brain regions of interest through a consistency analysis is well-motivated and seems reasonable.
The authors follow standard procedures in measuring brain-LM alignment and analyse the results in sufficient depth.
A good number of older and newer LMs are included in the study.
An insightful finding is reported: LLMs and VLMs show stronger alignment to brain activations in the newly-identified consisency-based regions of interest, regardless of whether these regions play a role in linguisic processing, suggesting that these models encode a modality agnostic concept representation.
- The DPO approach based on plagiarism detection and counterfactual generation is a reasonable and interesting idea.
- The paper tackles the significant and pressing issue of copyright compliance in LLMs, which has substantial real-world implications.
- The proposed SUV framework, which combines DPO with gradient projection and Fisher information regularization for selective unlearning, presents an interesting and non-trivial technical approach.
- The effort to construct and utilize a large-scale dataset of 500 copyrighted books (CBP-500) for evaluation is commendable and allows for a more realistic assessment of unlearning copyrighted text compared to smaller or non-copyrighted benchmarks.
- The dataset is a useful resource to evaluate LLMs’ capability in memorizing, tracking, and incorporating a dynamic user profile.
- The data synthesis pipeline is cost-efficient and scalable.
It reuses sessions for efficiency and adds short non-personal interactions for diversity.
- The evaluation results (Figure 5) are useful for understanding current gaps and the effect of external memory on different skills, although more insights are expected e.g.
1) The goal of the paper is well written and the experiments address the paper's claims.
2) It is a technically demanding paper as it involved pre-training many SLMs.
The training and evaluation of models seems to be well performed.
3) The findings could potentially change the community's view on learnability and generalization of transformer-based LMs.
(1) The main purpose the authors want to get across is coherence in small models does not come from simplified language and we shouldn't be framing training models in this way as it could be misleading.
I think showcasing this is important.
(2) The authors follow careful data validation.
Additionally the paper is structured well.
The paper explores an interesting idea and does focused experiments related to it.
The writing is largely clear and I don't find anything particularly problematic.
The motivation about noise injection is very clear.
The proposed method is simple and also effective (as shown in experimental results).
(1) The focus on the full black-box MIAs requires fewer assumptions than previous methods.
(2) This work is the first to explore the effectiveness of N-GRAM attack on post-training data, a very interesting perspective.
Membership inference for LLMs is an important problem considering the advances in the field and ongoing lawsuits regarding copyright, etc.
The paper proposes a simple but promising solution.
The experiments and comparisons are insightful.
The paper presents a systematic study on the use of LLMs for expert annotation tasks.
The paper is well written and clearly motivated; and the conducted experiments cover recent models as well as methods.
The results clearly show the limitations of existing methods as well as models and raise some interesting questions for future research.
* The proposed method is straightforwards and applicable to any classification task.
* The experimental results show the positive impact of implementing a strategy that emulates a discussion between agents, both in terms of inter-agent agreement and accuracy.
This framework achieves good performance.
This paper is well-written.
The proposed method is very easy to implement.
Only one additional step is required prior to existing methods, i.e.
And the overhead is neglegible.
The motivation for this normalization step is clear to me.
It's similar to store the salient weight element in a two vector per-column and per-row.
The paper is clearly written, easy to follow.
The paper is very well written and the problem statement is very clear.
The proposed approach makes a lot of sense and has illustration and explanation for why the proposed approach works.
The model achieves quite good performance for compressing the small size model.
I think the paper cannot be accepted at the current form.
- The paper proposed a principled model for tuning‑curve forecasts with random search, with support of empirical validations.
- The paper is well structured and clearly written.
- The paper is well written and the ideas clearly presented - Interesting related work section clearly describing the differences of multi-document summarisation (MDS), query focused MDS and Open-domain MDS.
- Valuable resource for the research community to evaluate state-of-the-art ODMDS models - Well described generation of the dataset.
Similar approaches may be used to generate more ODMDS datasets in other domains.
- The proposed method for constructing multi-source RAG datasets from query-focused summarization datasets is scalable and ensures the integrity of gold summaries while making them applicable in broader open-domain scenarios.
This may help inspire other multi-document setups beyond summarization for further research.
- The paper has a rigorous and extensive set experiments on various recent models, RAG system components, including retrieval and generation, providing valuable insights into their capabilities and limitations.
* The paper is well written and motivated and addresses an interesting topic.
* The workflow preparation and annotation process is described in detail, as well as the comparative (human vs LLMs) analysis.
- The LawFlow dataset is a good contribution to legal NLP by moving beyond siloed tasks to capture holistic legal reasoning processes which are iterative, modular and adaptive.
- It is a timely and innovative contribution to legal AI.
It takes seriously the complexity of legal reasoning and offers a dataset that foregrounds process over outcome.
- Empirical comparisons between human and LLM workflows highlight structural and cognitive differences in a convincing manner, such as rigidity in LLM reasoning or over-execution of branches.
- The comparative analysis with LLMs reveals both current limitations and opportunities for symbiotic human-AI systems which are seeing to increasing with the trend.
While some technical and evaluative details could be fleshed out more clearly for easy grasping, the conceptual and dataset contributions are highly valuable and will likely inspire follow-up work in legal NLP and workflow modeling.
In general, while this paper does not propose a novel architecture or methodology, it can be seen as a very clever orchestration of existing techniques to overcome a possibly unexplored problem.
WebShell detection seems to be an important but underexplored cybersecurity challenge.
The paper benchmarks both large (GPT-4, LLaMa 3.1 70B) and small LLMs across a realistic dataset, I think in that sense it is trying to fill a gap in both AI and security research.
while the problem or scenario may seem niche, there is a consistent improvement over state of the art .
for example, GPT-4 with BFAD surpass a graph-based methods (GAT) at all metrics .
- A multilingual SLU benchmark is provided for SLU tasks - Extensive experiments are conducted on the top of the proposed benchmark.
The use of the readily available model lineage information for performance prediction is a unique and novel approach to an important problem in current LLM research.
In addition, the paper highlights intriguing characteristics of the relationship between model lineage and its performance, which would be interesting to explore further.
The paper addresses the cold start problem with very few predictions from the model.
The paper provides a large-scale evaluation of the LMRF technique.
Accounting for linear information does seem like an interesting idea.
This work addresses an practical issue given the popularity of RAG.
Good formulation of the edit scenarios in the three edit modes.
The experiments include the multi-turn updates and the cases of knowledge conflicts.
The results that show the cases where standard RAG performs inferior to the efficient RAG are interesting.
* Paper is well written and easy to follow.
* The paper is written clearly, with well-structured arguments, polished figures, and well-explained datasets and tasks, making it reader-friendly.
* This research could have impact for LLM Training * The paper provides detailed theoretical with attention map explanations the introduced methodology.
The paper's investigation is new and the paper is also well written.
The data generation procedure is quite novel and could be used to synthesize even harder questions.
The analysis is generally comprehensive, with intuitive results.
A new and extensive dataset for Mathematical Reasoning to do away with any contamination of reasoning datasets.
Detailed analysis showing how the LLMs perform on reasoning tasks at zero-shot and after instruction-tuning.
The idea of follow up questions to understand the reasoning ability of LLMs.
The paper is well-written.
1) LLMs are general-purpose models, but users always have their only use cases.
It is hard to figure out a very user-specific benchmark for everyone because it is timely and expensive on human annotation.
However, this work propose to generate queries from user-provided documents automatically, which can greatly alleviate this problem.
X‑Teaming can achieve a high ASR with diverse plans.
This poses greater threats, underscoring the need for more comprehensive defenses that cover a wide range of scenarios.
The paper introduces a multi‑turn safety dataset containing 14 k attack trajectories, which can support future defenses against multi‑turn attacks and demonstrates its effectiveness through fine‑tuning results.
The paper proposes an effective multi-turn jailbreaking method 2.
The effectiveness of the method is demonstrated across multiple datasets and models
- strong results over reasonable baselines, competitive with a human baseline - a varied selection of methods, models, and topics - convincing ablation study
* The proposed method is very simple but well-motivated and clearly explained.
* The data generated from the pipeline has shown high diversity, improving robustness of the unlearning process.
This is a solid strength of the method.
* The experimental setup involves grid searching over parameters of the proposed method to have a set of strong baselines to compare against.
* The proposed method relies on the generation of synthetic data and the authors showed that even with smaller open source model, strong and impactful synthetic data can be generated to gain strong performance in unlearning.
- This study proposes a novel perspective for unlearning LLMs by creating synthetic datasets.
- The proposed approach is also practical.
- Experiments on wide range of benchmarks (biosecurity, cybersecurity, and Harry Potter novels) and models (Mistral, llama3) demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed method, supporting the main claim with various experiments.
- An ablation study provides us with a new finding that higher diversity is important for achieving robust unlearning performance overall.
- The paper is well written and easy to understand.
- The contribution is mostly experimental, and proposes a well-designed and successful pipeline that will prove useful for the community.
- The proposed prompting method focuses on increasing diversity of synthetic data through 3 stages, which is indeed likely the best objective, given our understanding of current literature about synthetic data for LLM.
- The experiments are nicely conducted and convincing.
- The fact to also compare with Mistral-based data generation is very welcome, as it is the only way to guarantee reproducibility, which is crucial and mandatory to qualify any study as scientific.
The proposed method effectively demonstrates the usefulness of PRM in LLM agents’ tool use.
The idea of learning from imperfect but informative trajectories is also insightful for future work.
The method is evaluated on multiple tasks and shows good OOD generalization.
The performance improvement over the base model and SFT is substantial.
* This paper explores the effect of multi-step RL in tool use, which is an important area that should benefit from RL training intuitively.
* The experiment results are good.
The authors demonstrate that their method improves the base model's performance significantly and outperforms vanilla SFT by a considerable margin.
Additionally, some insights they provide about the selection of rejection sampling and reward methods can also benefit future works in that area.
* Well written and explained paper.
The results are quite encouraging, and multiple ablation studies are performed testing issues like out-of-domain and temporal robustness.
This is a nice, theoretically grounded, work showing good interpretable results: - grounding in cognitive science: it is intuitive but this grounding does help.
- good performances: when predicting preferences, especially over GPT-4o used as a judge - interpretability: by construction, and well in line with the expected values of the subdomains - resistance to temporal shift: although the experiment is limited in that regard
- Introduces a novel information‑theoretic diagnostic toolkit (F_V^{(l)}, F_T^{(l)}) enabling layer‑wise traceability in multimodal LLMs, a capability not provided by prior work.
- The method is lightweight (post‑hoc, no retraining), making it a practical diagnostic for both researchers and practitioners.
- The idea of utilizing the IB-based theory and concept bottleneck to analyze MLLMs is novel to me, and the theory looks sound.
- This paper studies several important research questions, which is a good contribution to the community.
This is the first method to measure visual and text tokens relationship quantitatively with the help of information theory.
The author did studies on a few benchmarks with different experiment setting.
Quantitative results align with human intuition for MLLM.
The information theory based analysis provide new direction and inspiration for MLLM interpretability research
Strong theoretical and novel framework to combine the Information bottleneck principle with a concept bottleneck approach, offering a systematic, quantitative way to disentangle and study the role of text in shaping visual representations.
Mathematically interesting approach which is explicitly designed to tackle biases present in preference data.
Good list of related methods to which authors compared their approach.
Good experiment setup: same starting model, same data, vary only approaches.
- Introduces two new algorithmic components (deviation-based weighting) and improved length regularizer that addresses limitations in prior work.
- Provides some interesting theoretical insights into length-based optimization in alignment methods.
- Presents a thorough empirical comparison of the proposed methods with several competitive baselines across several datasets and different model families (up to 8B).
- Includes a detailed analysis the effect of length normalization hyperparameters and dynamic adaptation, highlighting useful insights for its use in practice.
need to carefully tune \lambda)
The proposed method is well-motivated and for the most part straightforward to follow.
I find the section on URSLA illuminating and intuitive.
The gains appear solid, although see the question section below for one of my concerns.
The ablations are good additions, answering many questions I had in mind while reading through the experiment section.
The paper seems to show good results on benchmarks that have been used on similar papers (AlpacaEval, MT-Bench, ArenaHard).
It also presents a good motivation for each of the components in the loss and how they contribute for the final performance.
The paper writing is easy to follow 2.
Empirical results are strong
The paper give a proof of the correlation between the generalization performance of a classifier and the variance in labels.
Use a Siamese- style model as a teacher to help reduce the label variance effects.
The extensive experiment results are promising.
The paper contribute two new datasets to the field.
It is a novel idea to transform the graph distillation problem into the problem of graph decomposition.
This paper clearly expresses the distillation problem in mathematical language and naturally transforms it into a graph decomposition problem.
The experimental configuration is described in detail, and the experimental results are good and reasonable.
It is crucial to address the issue of existing costs in training large-scale graphs through graph distillation, as it remains an under-explored problem.
It is interesting to observe how the authors have proposed an unsupervised approach for graph distillation, eliminating the requirement for parameters and model architecture, and still achieving comparable performance to the original dataset.
The methodology is interesting, and the performances achieved by their approach are amazing.
This paper distills the original graph dataset into a novel form, namely the sets of computation trees, instead of traditional feature and structure information, i.e.
This paper not only improves generalization by avoiding model-related computation but also addresses the limitation of the traditional distillation step that necessitates training on the entire dataset.
MIRAGE demonstrates superiority from various metrics, i.e.
predictive accuracy, distillation efficiency, and data compression rates.
There is much to like in this paper.
It is a great idea, and has been very, very well executed.
- The authors obtain 100 recent books from the last year - while reviews of those books exist those are not summaries.
I would be less certain that those books or their summaries are _impossible_ to be part of the training corpus.
Modern LLM go well beyond only crawling Internet data and providers have deals with many different publishers.
Still, this is arguably one of the most rigorous attempts to create a test set that avoids dataset contamination.
- The evaluation focuses on precision.
The standard approach of evaluation summaries is to rely on human-written summaries and the compare those with system-generated.
This is very expensive, and creates lots of pitfalls as it depends on the similarity metric used to compare summaries (even without using n-gram overlap metrics, learnt embedding metrics like BERTScore have their own set of biases).
Instead, this work focuses on assessing a given summary by asking questions about it.
It jumps right into what is still difficult to do with modern LLMs
The paper addresses an important problem in summarization, proposing solutions to scale the evaluation of very long documents that are longer (for now) than current context sizes of large language models.
The effort applied in validating a reference-free automatic metric with newly collected books and human annotation are relevant contributions for future work in summarization.
Analyzing how well GNNs can approximate marginals in PGMs is interesting (though there are limitations as will be discussed), and offers a new perspective for measuring the expressiveness of GNNs.
The paper is generally well written with clear background introductions and problem setup.
Many details are given in the appendix, which is also appreciated.
A lot of analysis has been done with discussions on many different GNN variants and inference tasks.
Results also seem solid (but I did not carefully check the proof).
* Theoretical analysis is solid and reasonable on the inference capacity of various GNNs.
* The paper identifies that GNNs can do Probabilistic inference on its own, which has novelty than other methods combining GNN with graphical models.
* The paper proposes methods like phantom nodes and edges based on their inference analysis framework and show experiments of their methods.
The GNN’s connection to the PGMs is developed in an interesting and principled way..
Specifically, the formulation overcomes the permutation invariance inherent to the graph neural networks but missing in the PGMs.
The results progressively elaborate on the connections between GNN’s expressive power in terms of the learnable capacity of node marginals.
Some of the results are surprising although many of them are intuitively known.
The correspondence between k-wl and clique orders is intuitive and is 1.
The paper is well written and the presentation flow is reasonably clear.
- The paper is well written.
- The research topic about the expressive power of GNNs is important and interesting.
- The paper seems novel to me.
Different from existing methods on the expressive power of GNNs, which use WL test, this paper analyze the expressive power of GNNs in the perspective of the probabilistic view.
The paper makes two contributions: (1) improving the theoretical understanding of GNNs utilizing a probabilistic viewpoint to classify expressibility with respect to (and beyond) Weisfeiler-Lehman tests and (2) utilizing this probabilistic viewpoint to propose a novel methodology to lift the expressive power of MPNNs.
Recasting the question of expressiveness from limited WL tests into a probabilistic frame is natural in the setting of ML, and as shown, lucrative.
It is interesting to introduce forgery/spoofing attacks into the recent popular area, namely, LLM.
Originality: - Investigates the novel problem of whether language models can learn to generate watermarks themselves.
This question has important implications but was previously unexplored.
Quality: - Provides extensive empirical results across three watermarking schemes and hyperparameters—thorough, reproducible experiments.
- Uses appropriate metrics to assess watermark detection and text quality—rigorous quantitative evaluation.
- Clear methodology and training details—enable replicability.
Clarity: - Structured logically to build understanding incrementally.
Smooth flow between sections.
Significance: - Foundational insights into watermark learnability advance knowledge in an important emerging area.
- Learnability findings have direct implications for applications like watermarking open models.
- Identifies risks around spoofing that impact watermark security.
Informs responsible development.
- Benchmark results across schemes and hyperparameters enable future work.
* Overall, I liked the paper.
The problem of watermarking open models and spoofing attacks against watermarks is timely and important.
* The authors show that three watermarking methods are vulnerable to spoofing through distillation.
* The authors convince me their distillation approach works for many different generation parameters against all three watermarking methods when sufficiently many samples are available to the attacker.
* The authors show experiments with many state-of-the-art models.
The research motivation of this paper is clear.
The existing studies on the interpretability of Dynamic Graph Neural Networks are still limited, thus it is meaningful to bridge such gap.
The description of the existing challenges to the interpretability of DyGNNs is interesting.
The authors argue that the first challenge lies in the approach to disentangling the complex causal relationships as no explicit information is available for the identification of trivial, dynamic, and static relationships.
The proposed framework is the first work for interpretability in dynamic graph neural networks.
This is a significant contribution.
The paper is well organized and clearly described.
The method is technically sound.
The experiments are comprehensive and the results show the effectiveness of the proposed method.
The new constructed benchmark dataset is a good addition to the research domain.
Originality: this paper is aimed at explaining dynamic graphs by proposing a causal inspired framework.
Existing works on the explanation of GNNs are on static graphs.
This paper instead focuses on dynamic graphs.
Disentangling spatial and temporal relationships can be very challenging.
This paper explicitly constructs a structural causal model by considering trivial relationships and causal relationships (consisting of static relationships and dynamic relationships) to solve this problem, which is interesting.
$\underline{\textrm{Originality}}$: the paper presents great originality in providing a Hamiltonian representation learning framework that can generalize across multiple system domains.
This is in contrast to the common approach of providing system-specific models.
$\underline{\textrm{Quality}}$: the paper is very well written.
First, it provides the reader with all necessary background as well as motivation for the task addressed.
Next, methods and results are well constructed.
$\underline{\textrm{Clarity}}$: the main ideas conveyed in this paper are clearly constructed and explained and supplementary information assists with providing further details and ablation studies.
$\underline{\textrm{Significance}}$: the main significance of the paper is in defining a new task, generalizing upon existing approaches, and suggesting to derive a framework that learns a representation that is not domain-specific.
The experiments clearly show the superiority of meta-learning, at least within the limited number of Hamiltonian systems.
The motivation, the method, and the experimental results are very clearly reported.
(1) Unlike many existing works that focus on learning system dynamics under similar physical law, the proposed methods aim to learn the unified representations across diverse system domains via meta-learning the Hamiltonian of the given system.
This sounds significant and promising.
(2) Both quantitative and qualitative results demonstrated the proposed method achieved better adaptation to various new systems compared with baselines.
- The procedure used to quantify complexity and quality is innovative and can be used for other hard to quantify aspects of data quality in future work.
- The results from the experiments clearly show that the proposed method is indeed selecting important data points (i.e., better than random selection) at least for improving performance on AlpacaEval and MT-Bench.
- The paper provides in-depth controlled studies to show the proposed scoring measurements are better than baselines in terms of complexity and quality.
- With fine-tuned LLaMA-7B models on the 20K Alpaca dataset with the scores from GPT, the measurements can score unseen instructions at a cheap cost.
- The proposed diversity-aware selection method is efficient and easy to implement.
- Clear presentation and easy-to-follow writing.
The BOSS (Bellman Optimal Step-size Straightening) method presents an innovative two-phase approach for adapting pretrained flow-matching models.
This paper illustrates that BOSS can straighten the velocity network with approximately 10,000 retraining iterations, which marks a significant improvement in efficiency compared to standard practices.
Consistently, BOSS achieves lower FID scores in the task of unconditional image generation across a variety of datasets, suggesting superior image quality relative to competing methods.
Moreover, the paper introduces a distinctive methodology for calculating optimal sampling step sizes through dynamic programming, thereby increasing the sampling process's efficiency.
Not only in flow matching, but also in diffusion models, all endeavors are focused on predicting the efficiency of noise, score, and vector field.
While most of them set the step size based on a heuristic principle (e.g., DDIM, DDPM), this paper explores generative models of ODE from a different perspective - the step size itself, rather than the "direction" of a specific step.
- This paper targets an interesting and exciting problem in the community, test set contamination.
- Based on the hypothesis, this paper proposed a contamination detection method, which is intuitive and easy to deploy in other settings.
- The method is verified with a 1.4B language model trained from scratch, and the existing Llama2 model, both showing promising results even when the test set only appears a few times in the pre-training corpus.
This is clearly written paper and makes a strong contribution.
The tests do not require access to model weights or pretraining data, making them practically useful.
- The idea of utilizing dataset exchangeability to identify test set contamination is novel and interesting.
- The proposed sharded likelihood comparison test addresses the tradeoff between statistical power and computational requirements of the permutation test, which is promising.
The sharded rank comparison test also provides (asymptotic) guarantees on false positive rates.
- Experimental results are promising.
A GPT-2 model is trained from scratch on standard pretraining data and known test sets to verify the efficiency of the proposed method in identifying test set contamination.
The method is also tested with an existing model, LLaMA2, on the MMLU dataset, showing general agreement with the contamination study results.
-Topic of large importance in the community given the direction of the field.
-Novel approach with thorough empirical results.
I have some questions about the definition of test set contamination below.
-Well written and interesting.
The paper is well-written and does a good job articulating its aims and contributions.
The paper provides a theoretical link between several algorithms, and derives error dynamics (for a simple problem) for one of them.
The Hebbian/anti-Hebbian approximation works as well as the PEPITA algorithm, which is a good sign for bio plausibility (of both PEPITA and FF, since they work similarly).
- Biologically-inspired and forward-only training approaches are a relevant and timely topic.
- It would be very useful to unify the multitude of different approaches into a common framework.
By connecting three major biologically-inspired approaches, this paper takes an important step towards that goal.
- Given the still-remaining gap between backpropagation and forward-only approaches, analyzing and improving their performance is essential for their practical relevance.
- Section 4.2 gives a well-structured summary of the experimental results.
It would have been nice, to include a discussion of the impact of weight decay, activation normalization, and weight mirroring
- The method of combining attributes in model arithmetic is inventive - Derivations of the solutions to the model arithmetic optimizations are interesting - It is useful to know that this works with speculative sampling - Results seem to generally support that the framing of attribute combination works, particularly the toxicity results
The proposed method based on model arithmetic is interesting and general.
Experimental results show its effectiveness on toxicity reduction and fine-grained controlled text generation tasks.
- Language Model Arithmetic as expressed seems to be an elegant generalization of a number of past approaches, while adding significantly more expressivity.
- The use of speculative sampling to speed-up evaluation of what is usually quite costly multi-model inference, in a way that scales better the more models are being sampled from is clever and very promising.
- The results, while somewhat more limited than I would have hoped, are promising.
- The paper is well-written and connects to previous work while showing its novelty.
The appendices are thorough and I found all the details I was looking for when double-checking the finer points of method and evaluation.
1) I think the motivation here is clear.
It'd be great to do this kind of a thing with already trained models.
You really do want to compose them and do arithmetic with them, especially as these models become more expensive to train and impossible for the vast majority of us to do any development or even significant fine-tuning, instruction-tuning, rlhf etc.
2) The empirical results on toxicity are nice; the methods seem to reduce them in so far as the perspective api can adjudicate.
This paper studies a new challenge (i.e., reliability bias) for multi-modal test-time adaption.
Test-time adaption methods aim at adopting the pre-trained model from the source domain to the target domain in real-time and most existing of them focus on single-modality tasks against domain shifts.
On the one hand, this paper takes the more complex multi-modal scenarios into consideration.
On the other hand, the authors study and tackle the reliability bias challenge.
The authors conduct extensive experiments to validate the importance of developing robust TTA methods against reliability bias.
On the one hand, the existing cross-modal fusion methods (late fusion, attention-based fusion, etc.) would suffer from reliability bias and cannot achieve reliable cross-modal fusion.
On the other hand, the existing TTA method cannot completely reconcile the distribution shifts by updating the parameters of normalization layers, leading to surviving reliability bias across modalities.
Furthermore, the authors show that simply handling reliability bias during test time takes more superiority compared to the imbalanced multi-modal learning methods that alter the training process to handle the problem.
The proposed method is novel and technically sound.
First, the authors focus on the characteristics of multi-modal TTA and design the self-adaptive attention module that repurposes the attention layers during test time for achieving reliable cross-modal fusion.
I think the design would inspire the community to design task-specific parameter modulation instead of solely updating the parameters of normalization layers following most existing methods.
Second, to achieve robustness against heavy noise during adaption, the authors propose the robust loss function which not only eliminates the influence of noisy predictions but also boosts utilization of the clean predictions with theoretical guarantees.
This paper has a good motivation.
The authors focus on multi-modal test-time adaption and reveal a NEW task-specific challenge (i.e., cross-modal reliability bias) for the first time.
This paper first empirically proves that the existing test-time adaption methods cannot tackle the cross-modal reliability bias problem.
Furthermore, the authors also investigate the effect of adopting the existing unbalanced multi-modal learning methods to handle the cross-modal information discrepancy.
The unbalanced multi-modal learning methods handle the unbalanced multi-modal data during training time with the help of labeled data, which resembles the test-time training paradigm in the domain adaption community.
The results indicate that the multi-modal learning methods cannot take superiority for the challenge.
In other words, the authors support the claim that designing an elaborated method for the cross-modal reliability bias during test time is essential.
The authors take an in-depth study on the cross-modal reliability bias challenge and find that robust cross-modal fusion and noise resistance are essential to achieve multi-modal TTA against reliability bias.
To this end, the authors design a novel method dubbed reliable fusion and robust adaption (RFRA).
On the one hand, RFRA achieves reliable fusion through the self-adaptive fusion module.
On the other hand, RFRA employs an elaborately designed objective function to achieve noise-robust adaption.
1 and 2 clearly depict the motivation and key idea of the paper.
Overall evaluation, this paper is with strong motivation, a technical sound approach, extensive experiments, and good writing.
This paper is well-written, well-organized, and easy to follow.
The paper addresses a novel and important problem, i.e., multi-modal TTA with reliability bias, which has not been well-studied in the literature.
Accordingly, the paper proposes an effective method, RFRA, which leverages self-adaptive attention and confidence-aware loss to achieve reliable fusion and robust adaption across modalities.
Moreover, the confidence-aware loss is simple but effective and enjoy the non-monotonous gradient property.
The paper provides two new benchmarks for multi-modal TTA with reliability bias, which could facilitate future research on this topic.
The paper conducts extensive experiments and ablation studies on these benchmarks to demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of RFRA over existing TTA methods.
This paper studies a new and practical challenge in the context of multi-modal test-time adaptation, namely, reliability bias.
In the wild, it is evitably to introduce distribution shifts in some modalities.
As a result, the task-specific information across the modalities would be more inconsistent, thus contributing to the reliability differences for different modalities.
The authors design extensive experiments to investigate the influence of reliability bias under different multi-modal fusion manners and the results validate the necessity of handling reliability bias for multi-modal TTA.
I think the revealed challenge would bring some insights to the TTA community.
Constructing meaningful benchmarks.
To highlight the necessity of developing reliability-bias robust multi-modal TTA, the authors construct two new benchmarks with different settings of reliability bias based on the Kinetics and VGGSound datasets.
Concretely, the benchmarks consist of both video and audio modalities and each modality is with corruptions of different levels so that the reliability bias is simulated.
On the one hand, the corruption on video modality follows ImageNet-C, which ensures comparison fairness.
On the other hand, the incorporation of audio corruption types extends the utility of this research to the audio domain with TTA.
Besides, the benchmarks encompass diverse multi-modal tasks, including action recognition and event classification, thus providing a comprehensive evaluation and supplementing existing multi-modal test-time adaptation tasks.
Innovative paradigm for TTA.
This paper proposes a new paradigm for TTA, namely, repurposing the attention layers during test time.
Intuitively, the parameter updating of normalization layers like most existing TTA methods can only handle the distribution shifts between domains.
In contrast, the parameter modulation of attention layers would help learn the importance difference between modalities, resulting in the reliable fusion for multi-modal TTA.
The authors perform extensive experiments to show the superiority of the proposed new paradigm against reliability bias.
* The paper's contributions are supported by theoretical proofs * It seems that the convergence of mean-field Langevin dynamics was still an open problem and the problem of this paper is well defined.
The class of minmax optimization problems under consideration is quite natural.
The result seems to be the first of its kind for this sort of problems.
Similar results on convergence of McKean-Vlasov particle systems for convex optimization would be much easier to prove.
The technical difficulties faced in the minimax scenario with the time averaging seem considerable.
Compactly written, this paper is the first to establish convergence results in using MFLD for minimax optimization over probability measures.
By incorporating a weighting scheme into MFL-AG, the authors offered a creative direction for future works on MFLD.
The comprehensive discretization analysis complements the continuous-time convergence result well.
Their second method, MFL-ABR, is also an interesting improvement upon MF-BR that is realizable by a particle algorithm and enjoys convergence guarantees.
The paper is excellently written and fairly easy to follow despite the depth of insights proven.
In particular, the phenomenological model Equation 10 (and its illustration Figure 7) is a standout novel contribution, and clearly worthy of publication, in our view.
I have read several papers recently that try to provide some insights about the emergent capabilities of LLMs -- through abstract modeling and experiments with tasks such as linear regression (learned through ICL).
This paper is the best I have read so far in that direction.
The experiments are wisely designed, allowing us to understand the complex tradeoff between IWL and ICL -- as well the effect of some key data distributional parameters such as the rank-frequency exponent.
The simple model proposed in the second part of the paper is also intriguing, explaining how the abstract model of an induction head can explain mechanistically the ICL capabilities of an attention-based network.
This paper tackles a timely and interesting topic, and contains several insights and useful contributions.
-- The synthetic task family introduced is a clean and intuitive way of exposing dependencies of learning strategies on pretraining data distributions.
Showing that key phenomena identified in (Chan et al., 2022) can be replicated in this setting is a useful contribution.
- Strong empirical evidence of the reasonability of the method.
Also, the experiments are at an impressive scale, supporting the claims of the work.
- Rich set of recent baselines considered in the experiments, fair comparisons.
- I really like that this method allows for augmenting previous robust approaches, e.g., PLEX, with the proposed solution.
That significantly boosts its applicability.
- Computational efficiency concerns are thoroughly addressed in the appendix.
The strengths of this paper are it's: * Simplicity, the method seems very easy to implement and is intuitive to understand.
* The experiments are reasonably conclusive and operate on a significant number of datasets.
For the most part, this paper is well-written, and is easy to digest for someone who is familiar with graph neural networks.
I don't think the intended audience of this paper includes someone not familiar with GNNs, but this is fine in my opinion.
The proposed method is demonstrated to be quite efficient in comparison to existing ones, with similar performance as well.
The theoretical results are intriguing.
Indeed, a competitor to the WL and SWL tests would be a valuable contribution to the graph ML community.
A wide variety of benchmarks over several tasks and datasets are conducted to demonstrate the efficacy and efficiency of SaNNs.
SaNNs inherit several valuable invariance properties of other SNNs including permutation invariance, orientation invariance, and simplicial-awareness.
Compared to MPSNs, consideration of higher-order simplices does not blow up computation complexity.
- The goal of the work, achieving better scalability of expressive networks by using non-parametric simplicial encoders makes sense.
- The authors thoroughly analyze their method theoretically and provide proofs for all relevant properties.
- The presented method seems to find a good trade-off between expressiveness, runtime and empirical quality.
- There is theoretical value in the non-parametric encoder for simplices that keeps equivariant properties and simplicial-awareness - The paper is mostly well written
I am impressed by the clarity of presentation in the paper.
I find talking and reading about simplicial complex often a messy business given all the types of simplices and adjacencies, and the abstract notion in the first place.
It is clear that the authors though well about how to present the math.
This includes proper use of figures.
The goal of the paper itself -efficiency whilst not compromising on expressivity- is relevant and important, and it is great to see the authors succeeding in reaching this goal.
I appreciate the summary of the proofs after the formal statements.
Next to a sound theoretical exposition, the experiments are thorough as well and include many ablation studies that are used to distill insightful take home messages.
The idea to include information from superset is simple and effective as shown by the experiment results 2.
Theoretical discussions are provided.
- The paper is clearly written.
- The related work covers enough ground for a new researcher to understand a high level idea of this field.
- The experiments include multiple baselines.
The experiments are sufficient and interesting, showing the in-context learnability of trained TFs on discrete Boolean functions.
Previous papers mostly focused on the IC learnability of linear functions, sparse linear functions or NNs.
The consideration of Boolean functions is particularly creative.
The experiments about teaching sequence is particularly interesting, and also for the experiments on LLMs.
The fact that LLMs can implement the kNN algorithm in-context is amazing, and I also like the narratives of the algorithm learning perspective of in-context learning.
The writing is great and easy to follow.
I find the proposed learnable data augmentation mechanism intriguing.
Intuitively, this approach appears effective, as it can be finely tuned through the optimization of two core metrics: label consistency and data distribution.
Through iterative optimization of these components---the GNN module and the learnable data augmentation module---it seems both elements can be well-trained, enhancing the overall performance of the model.
The node clusters displayed in Figure 3 provide a compelling visual representation of the effectiveness of the proposed GNN backbone.
The well-separated node clusters, especially concerning different edge relations, serve as a strong validation of the necessity of leveraging distinctions in homophily distribution for anomaly detection.
This visualization underscores the robustness of the proposed method.
The paper is skillfully composed, ensuring clarity and coherence in conveying the research concepts.
Additionally, the experiments conducted are generally comprehensive, offering substantial evidence to support the effectiveness of the proposed model.
The logic of the whole paper is relatively clear and there are no obvious grammatical errors.
There are quite sufficient experiments to verify the proposed method.
The paper provides an open-sourced model that can automatically judge a models' generated output; this could potentially enable more researchers to run automatic evaluation at a lower cost with higher reliability.
- Auto-J proposes a way to produce evaluation methods for LLMs
The design of scenario-specific criteria is strongly motivated, which will enable LLM-based judges to produce high-quality evaluations and critiques.
Curated criterias can be model-agnostic and adopted to multiple models.
Comprehensive evaluation and analysis of Auto-J demonstrate that its evaluations are consistent and can align well with human judgements.
The paper targets an important topic of learning a model in RL 2.
I do not see many related works of building sparse representation-based models.
The work is well motivated in the introduction and a sufficient and clear background is provided for non-expert readers in the preliminaries section.
The algorithms, definitions, etc.
are mathematically rigorously presented.
A comprehensive set of experiments has been conducted demonstrating the efficacy of Losse-FTL
The paper opens up a really interesting problem, and conducts thorough experiments to demonstrate that LLMs can be used to infer personal attributes from online comments.
This is an important and novel research topic.
The experimental set up is really convincing.
I really appreciate the rating of the difficulty of attribute assignment and the anonymisation experiment.
This is the first work showing LLM could effectively infer sensitive attributes from user-written text.
This work could have a high impact on the community.
The authors have conducted comprehensive experiments to substantiate the key statement presented in the paper.
The paper offers a novel perspective on the study of Language Model Models (LLMs).
First paper demonstrating feasibility of such an attack.
Reasonably well written (though the paper contains formalisms that are quite honestly unnecessary, and punts a lot of relevant details to the appendix).
- Novel privacy threats emerging from the strong inference capabilities of current state-of-the-art LLMs in a zero-shot setting are discussed.
- A full release of a dataset of 525 human-labeled synthetic examples to further research in this area.
- Ineffectiveness of current mitigation methods against these attacks is discussed
The paper is well organized, and presents a new and rising privacy risk.
Such an attack was not feasible when a human was tasked with having to recover facts manually, and so the contribution is timely and well motivated.
They surface important privacy-related risks and demonstrates that much more work needs to be done to mitigate these kinds of attacks.
The limitations from SOA mentioned in the paper exist, and the motivation is valid.
Resolving the modality gap problem with the cross-modal assignment prediction using word embeddings of LLMs is a better solution than previous methods.
* The problem is well motivated with wide applications.
* The paper is mostly well written and explained.
* The empirical results show a big delta which demonstrates the effectiveness of the approach.
The studies are also conducted on wide range of problem settings.
The method is simple and clear - train a linear layer with two losses including the newly proposed assignment prediction loss.
Intensive experiments are provided on 3 tasks using different visual backbones (CLIP, BeiT) and text backbones (OPT-1.3B and T5-base), where results consistently outperforms existing methods.
The paper is well-written and easy to follow.
This paper reiterates their proposition that a simple prompt can be enhanced by gradually accumulating error analysis on its generated thoughts to address complex tasks.
The authors present a novel framework, the Boosting of Thoughts (BoT), to implement such progressive prompt enhancement for effective thought generation with an experience-driven iteration process.
Iteratively exploring and self-evaluating the generated simplistic trees of thoughts enables a simple initial prompt to be gradually enhanced by an ensemble of trial-and-error reasoning experiences, resulting in accurate solutions.
This work seems like a quite comprehensive investigation with well-structured and easy to read sections.
This is an innovative extension of the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) and Tree-of-Thought (ToT) methods.
Compared to CoT and ToT, the author adopts the idea on leveraging error analysis to refine the LLM.
This can be a limitation of CoT and ToT, as they do not conduct error analysis and more importantly, learn from errors.
The motivation is intuitive and clear.
Unlike ToT, which expands multiple reasoning tree branches, the BoT method iteratively refines a single line of thought.
This focus on iteration rather than expansion allows for a more concentrated and efficient improvement of the reasoning path.
The computation moves from exploring the tree into learning from erroneous trials.
The Boosting of Thoughts (BoT) concept shows a clear advancement in problem-solving methodologies within large language models.
It effectively combines generation and evaluation steps to progressively enhance reasoning, demonstrating a significant leap in the model's ability to handle complex tasks.
The experiments are clear, the results are effective.
And all experiments are classic experiments from CoT and ToT, so it is clear to compare BoT’s performance over CoT and ToT.
When we reach the limits by simply increasing language models, optimal interaction becomes increasingly interesting.
Exploring new ways of pushing the models to do more complex tasks can get more value out of existing LLMs and is highly relevant.
The paper provides code that is easy-to-read (although a Readme would be a nice addition).
The method shows that BoT and CoT perform above the comparisons.
The paper proposes a novel framework, Boosting of Thoughts (BoT), that utilizes an iterative trial-and-error approach to refine prompting and elicit complex reasoning from LLMs.
The key idea of learning from errors/ineffective thoughts is creative and mimics human problem-solving.
Authors involve interesting techniques like weighted binary trees and heterogeneous growth strategies to generate diverse, shallow thought structures from a simple prompt.
Evaluations on mathematical reasoning benchmarks demonstrate effectiveness of BoT.
It matches or exceeds state-of-the-art methods without needing human annotated prompts.
Also, the authors conduct ablation studies to further explain the mechanisms.
TabR demonstrates superior performance compared to GBDT and other retrieval-based tabular deep learning models on multiple datasets.
The new similarity module in TabR has a reasonable intuitive motivation, allowing it to find and exploit natural hints in the data for better predictions.
The results seem to be a significant advance over prior work in tabular data predictions.
In particular, the first deep learning model to outperform GBDT on an ensemble of datasets.
The experiments and analysis are quite extensive.
Multiple datasets of different kinds of data, analysis of training and prediction times.
Clear articulation of which techniques helped.
the techniques are overall not too complex.
The extensive amount of open-sourcing and experiment reproducibility is greatly appreciated.
Strong results relative to both deep learning and boosted tree methods, and TabR-S's relatively strong performance relative to out-of-the-box boosted tree libraries suggests this isn't just excessive parameter tweaking and overfitting via architecture search.
Easy to read, with key pieces of information generally emphasized appropriately.
- Quality - The motivation is well-founded and the claims are sound.
- Experimental analysis is very detailed and explanatory.
- Clarity - Paper is clearly presented and easy to follow.
* I find the topic of the investigation quite novel.
I believe that the approach taken is original and innovative, in particular building a corpus that allows disentangling style/topic/factual knowledge.
I also like the way LoRa was used to measure the capacity required for learning different facets.
* The authors are sharing the data and code.
* The reported experiments have provided some applicable insights, e.g.
- The method how the analysis is performed is novel.
Creating training and evaluation corpora with controlled differences (topics, style, factual knowledge) by prompting instruction following LLMs is interesting and inspiring.
- The analysis is extensive and is performed under various configurations (like the choice of LM, size of the training corpora) - The outcomes of analysis are interesting and relevant to future research that study lifelong learning of LMs.
Prior work by Goktas and Greenwald [23] addressed the problem of computing Stackelberg equilibria in a certain class of min-max optimization problems using an exact gradient oracle.
The present paper extends those prior results by providing polynomial-time guarantees even when only stochastic gradient estimates from the trajectories of play are available, filling a gap that was left in prior work.
Moreover, the paper nicely motivates the underlying problem, providing a number of concrete applications, especially with the experiments of Section 5 that demonstrate the benefit of computing Stackelberg versus Nash equilibria in a certain class of problems.
Overall, the paper addresses an important problem with a theoretically sound approach, and provides non-trivial improvements over the prior state of the art.
The paper is also well-written, and the ideas and concepts are clearly exposed.
The results are also accurately placed into the existing literature.
* The exposition of previous work and motivation is clear.
* The paper uses standard methods and indicates a good understanding of the min-max optimization and constrained optimization literature.
* The guarantees are for the stochastic setting (i.e., no full information gradient is needed.)
The authors have completed a thorough theoretical analysis of the proposed policy gradient method and prove it converges to Stackelberg equilibrium in polynomial time assuming the game is convex-concave.
+ The authors propose a unique combination of biologically inspired components that have been shown to exist in primate early visual mechanisms.
These components are also explained in good depth and clarity for readers who may not be familiar with the specific computations.
To the best of my knowledge, even though each of these components by themselves are not novel, the unique combination explored here appears to be novel and not explored before from the perspective of bettering alignment to V1 properties.
+ The proposed model is significantly outperforming the previous SOTA on explaining neural activity and tuning properties from the Brain-score dataset.
The authors have run multiple simulations with different random seeds and add more credibility to their observed findings.
- The authors leverage the communication complexity to show that the self attention layers add more representational capacity as compared to fully connected and recurrent neural networks.
- They use Match2 and Match3 problems to show rigorously that 2nd-order functions represent the threshold of efficient approximability for transformers.
- The variants of Match3 problems hint at transformers leveraging some local structures present in the data to go beyond pair matching.
This reconciles the Match3 impossibility result with the much presumably higher order successes of transformer models.
- They additionally show higher order transformers can solve the higher order function approximations.
* Interesting and relevant topic on interpreting the Transformer computations and learning progress.
* Good connections with relevant prior works in setting the backgrounds for inspiring the tasks and their practical implications proposed
To my knowledge, the presented theoretical results are novel in the study of transformers and their representational capabilities.
However, this work is out of my expertise and I cannot go into depth about the significance of the work.
I do appreciate the authors in providing some empirical evidence about the theoretical findings of the work.
The paper introduces a novel approach to the challenge of automated GUI interactions, using pixel-based screenshots as opposed to relying on text-based representations.
The PIX2ACT model was tested on two benchmark datasets, MiniWob++ and WebShop, which ensured a robust and varied testing process.
The paper is clearly written and offers substantial and important contributions, namely the ability to build an agent that can outperform humans in task completion using pixel-based inputs and a generic action space.
Their findings indicate that the pre-training of PIX2STRUCT via screenshot parsing is effective for GUI-based instruction following with pixel-based inputs.
This submission demonstrates significant strength in several key areas.
Firstly, it presents a clear and compelling motivation for developing an agent capable of directly interacting with pixel-level GUI interfaces, aligning with a more natural and human-like manner.
This aspect alone distinguishes the submission and makes it particularly appealing to the readers.
Moreover, the use of well-crafted illustrations enhances the understanding of the content and effectively communicates the main ideas, further solidifying its strength.
Readers can easily grasp the concepts presented, adding to the submission's overall impact.
Furthermore, the proposed framework is rigorously validated on two datasets, and the comparison with baselines using DOM/HTML as input is conducted in great detail.
This thorough analysis strengthens the submission's credibility and highlights its robustness.
- Teaching agents to interact with the web is an important research direction.
The experiments presented in this paper provide valuable insights to the community.
In particular, the authors demonstrate that large-scale pre-training on image-to-text tasks, such as Pix2Struct, can reduce the need to explicitly provide DOM information to the model.
Additionally, the task transfer ablation study shows that the model is able to generalize to other tasks.
These findings will help to shape the future research direction on this topic.
- Paper is well written and is easy to follow.
For MiniWob++ benchmark, authors performed sufficient ablation studies to quantify gains due to individual components i.e.
pre-training, behavior cloning.
The main strengths of the paper are: 1.
It demonstrates a successful system able to interact with the screen (web-based applications) in a similar way that humans do.
It does so by fine-tuning a pre-trained system with a small number of demonstrations.
It performs an ablation test where it shows that the pre-training information is critical.
This paper studies a classic and fundamental question in statistics, understanding the suboptimality of Least Squares.
This paper makes nice progress in this direction.
Besides the main result (mentioned in the summary), there are several other contributions, such as the (weak) admissibility property of the ERM in the random design setting; sometimes ERM can be optimal.
Moreover, one of the results shows that ERM is stable; all approximate minimizers of the squared loss are close to each other in the functions space, and on the other end, the converse doesn't hold, sometimes the ERM is an optimal estimate and there exist close functions to it with high empirical error.
Also, the proof techniques (the isoperimetry approach for example) look interesting and elegant.
* Cool results and proofs in the fixed design setting * The random design setting results are very interesting as well, albeit harder to digest all the quantities.
The paper studies an important problem, provides convincing conclusion.
The problem is not only intellectually interesting, it also advances our understanding of ERM, which is arguably the most important estimator for modern machine learning.
This paper is quite theoretical and technical.
The paper provides useful insights in different aspects.
The paper finds that (1) the variance term of ERM agrees with the minimax rate of estimation in both fixed and random design, (2) ERM is stable, (3) the landscape of near-solution for non-Donsker class is irregular, (4) the relation between isoperimetry and variance of ERM.
This paper is well written and easy to follow.
The rationale behind AMAG design is clearly described, especially the basis of utilizing prior knowledge about additive and multiplicative processes.
The results overall show an improvement of forecasting performance by AMAG, and the experimental results especially those on actual monkey data are very interesting.
The selected results on visualization of interaction strength and the neural population trajectory embedding, i.e, those in Fig 4, are also very informative and interesting.
The paper uses a graph neural network to do future prediction tasks, which is more complex than a reconstruction task.
The method has been verified in neural signals from monkeys and shown to outperform other state-of-the-art methods, including LFADS, and TERN.
- impressive enhancements in one-step forecasting performance - notable improvements are observed in multi-step forecasting, although to a lesser extent - explicit spatial interactions aid interpretability
This approach appears to accurately capture connectivity in synthetic signals, which appears to largely hold up in real world data as well.
Predictive performance shows large improvements in the forecasting (both one-step and multi-step) problem compared to competing approaches.
An ablation study implies that all components of the network are beneficial, motivating each component.
- The simplicity and nice algorithm that is easy to implement is a clear positive.
- Nice adaptation to differentially private clustering.
- Contains extensive theoretical analysis of approximation guarantees - The paper is written in clear language - The proposed method is relatively simple and therefore more likely to be useful in practice
## Originality, Quality, Significance * The paper provides a novel lightweight method using off the shelf syntactic parsers to enforce better binding of modifiers to nouns in text to image diffusion models.
The qualitative results seem promising and the human evaluation results suggest that the proposed method outperforms previous approaches to mitigate the binding issue.
## Clarity The paper is easy to follow.
The qualitative examples demonstrate the different kind of issues faced by the baselines and the improvements brought by the proposed approach.
This paper tackles an important and challenging drawback of text-to-image diffusion models struggling to faithfully generate objects with the right attributes.
This paper proposes an interesting two-part loss that imposes localized pairwise constraints on the attention maps between image patches and token embeddings.
The first constraint enforces that the same image patches attend to both the noun and its modifiers.
The second constraint enforces that image patches attending to these nouns/modifiers do not attend to any other tokens in the prompt.
This paper attempts to evaluate on a large set of prompts including those from prior work as well as proposing their own challenge set.
This paper attempts to better understand the effects and side-effects of the proposed losses via ablations.
- The paper addresses an important compositional problem in text-to-image generation.
- The method is intuitive and effective.
SynGen can obtain stronger attribute-object association using dependency trees compared to Structure Diffusion, the positive loss design is well-motivated for solving the problem, and the negative loss design enforces the cross-attention maps over A&E.
- The experiment looks comprehensive by considering all sources of datasets and including even more challenging prompts DVMP.
The prompts in DVMP are more challenging and realistic than previous "A and B" format prompts.
- The paper identifies and carefully studies a novel phenomenon involving the dynamics of the sharpness at the early stage of training.
- The experiments are very thorough (though limited to ReLU nets initialized with He initialization) - There is an analytical explanation in a simplified model - The findings shed some light on mode connectivity
This work attacks the challenging problem to find any universal behavior of early learning dynamics in finite-size networks (I guess that the terminology of "phase diagram" comes from physics or chemistry but such a dynamic and finite-sized diagram seems not known).
Despite this difficulty, the authors verified new phases (characterized by $c_{loss},c_{sharp},c_{max}$) in various settings and these new phases seem to have the originality.
Their careful and elaborated experiments are persuasive and enhance the quality of the paper.
Understanding the different regimes of training as a function of width, depth and learning rates is an important problem, and any work that studies these questions either mathematically or empirically is welcome.
The analysis and discussions are clear and insightful.
A range of different architectures are tested.
The regimes proposed and studied are to my knowledge new.
- Provides a novel perspective for bridging two existing techniques in different domains.
- Analysis is sound and creative.
- The presentation of the paper is very clear.
* Explainability is an extremely relevant topic.
* The connection between IP and OMP is itself very interesting and revealing.
* The novel explainability approach is elegant and supported by theoretical foundations.
* The numerical experiments are well-thought-through and professionally set up.
- The paper studies the practically important task of learning to defer to experts.
- The results seem to be non-trivial and critical theoretical guarantees for the approach studied.
- The writing is overall well-written and easy to follow, except for some technical parts.
- The paper provides a good review of previous work and clearly explains the contributions.
- The experiment is interesting and shows the usefulness of the approach of learning to defer.
The paper investigates a question of practical relevance to the machine learning community.
Deferral systems have appealing properties as they foster trust and transparency, as well as monitoring behaviour by introducing experts into the system.
However, it was not possible based on the prior work how to adapt any pre-trained system to experts.
This paper fills this gap by devising theoretically sound algorithms.
While the paper builds heavily on the previous works on rejection learning, the proposed algorithms are sufficiently novel.
The paper also fills a gap in the literature for deriving $\bar{\mathcal{H}}$-consistency bounds for a general rejection learning problem.
As a plus point, the proposed surrogates are simple and intuitive which makes it easier for adoption in the community.
The paper proposes first of its kind $\mathcal{H}$-realizable consistent algorithms for learning to defer with multiple experts.
I believe this is a significant contribution as generally building deferral systems considering multiple experts from scratch would be prohibitively expensive.
Although there are some minor typos in the text, the paper is clearly written and is super easy to read.
The problem setup is interesting and realistic.
The two stage deferring scenario is suitable when predictor is a pretrained LLM, and has promising real applications.
The surrogate loss function is well-motivated and new as far as I am concerned.
The theoretical results are strong and comprehensive.
I do not fully check the proof, but the results seem reasonable to me.
- Illustrative toy experiments.
Framework for GGM estimation based on conditional normalizing flows, indeed appears novel.
Supporting math seems solid.
Using simulated annealing algorithm to recover a path of solutions for varying $\lambda$ and $p$ is useful, in particular for the case of $p$, as in case of $\lambda$ it was fairly straightforward to perform it with other methods too.
I am just wondering how costly and scalable it is under the new framework, an empirical/theoretical analysis would be appreciated.
Up to my knowledge, this is the first time flows are applied to the space of positive definite matrices.
The proposed approach is flexible meaning the class of applicable prior and likelihood functions is quite large.
Using sub-l1 norm is suitable for structure learning.
The proposed algorithm is mathematically sound (as far as I can follow) and is quite interesting.
The paper is well-written, and the relevant work is sufficiently discussed.
Due to its flexibility, the proposed method has the potential of having a large impact.
The idea of using normalizing flows for GGM inference definitely brings in advantages of both Bayesian and frequentist worlds; to me, that's an innovative idea.
- Necessary condition: The theorem showing the necessity of concentration for robustness results from a simple, but nice application of the Brunn-Minkowski inequality.
I think this condition is novel, and complements existing results showing concentration of measure is bad for robustness - Polyhedral certificate: The theorem showing the polyhedral certificate for robustness appears non-trivial and interesting.
The certificate obtained is complementary to the spherical certificates of randomized smoothing.
- Writing: The paper is well-written and clear for the most part.
- The research problem is quite interesting, and is significant for the development of machine robustness and safety.
- This paper is well-organized.
The analyses are rigorous and solid.
The paper is well written, provides good references and approaches the challenging gap between theory of information measures and their estimation in practice.
This work discovers weakness in previous work in terms of slicing efficiency.
The idea is well motivated and explained well in introductory sections.
The properties of the proposed metric is well explained with easy to understand examples and visualization.
Examples in the empirical study showcases various in field applications which implies wide impact upon adoption.
The article is well written, starting from an easy understanding toy example, followed by the motivation and explanation.
The authors also clarify several important concepts that the reviewer will raise during the reading.
The theoretical analysis is detailed and clearly written.
- The observation of the the uniform distribution in sliced mutual information is insightful - Extensive experiments are done in different domains
Originality - Critical band masking-based analysis has previously been done to analyze recognition of letters and gratings.
The novelty for this paper comes from its critical band masking-based for ImageNet-like object recognition for 16 humans and 76 different neural networks.
Quality - The design of the study is mostly sound: 1100 images from 16 categories of ImageNet with various kinds of added noise are used as the test set.
Careful steps were taken to avoid clipping as a result of added noise.
16 participants are sufficient due to the small variability between subjects (Figure 2 in supplement).
- The evidence for the claims of bigger channel bandwidth than humans, inverse correlation of bandwidth and shape bias, and increased bandwidth with, are sound regarding the 76 networks evaluated in this paper.
Figures 4 5 6 contain clear evidence of these claims Clarity - The paper is well written and mostly easy to follow.
The plots in Figure 5 and 6 are quite condensed, containing a lot of information, but with the text and captions the reader can mostly parse them well.
-This is one of those papers that one wishes one had written.
The result about the human bandwidth is *Nature*-worthy!
-The sequence of experiments: First human psychophysics, then network “psychophysics”, then showing that these measurements of noise-sensitivity (mean, std dev., and peak noise sensitivity) account for fairly large amounts of variance in the networks’ adversarial robustness and shape-sensitivity are both logical and surprisingly revealing.
-The fact that these measurements account for 53% of the variance in shape-bias is remarkable, given that these are relatively low-level, and don’t have any necessary relationship to shape.
1) The paper addresses a crucial problem in the field of causal ATE estimation, particularly in the context of multi-site studies and privacy-preserving requirement.
Compared with the previous works, the setting is practical.
For example, it does not assume that a common set of confounders is observed in all sites.
2) The proposed method is technically sound.
The propsoed density ratio models and multiply robust estimator in federated setting are novel.
3) This paper provide theoretical guarantee, including identifiability (Theorem 1), local eatimation consistency (Theorem 2), and global eatimation consistency (Theorem 3).
4) The experimental setting are extensive, and the results basically can support what the authors claim.
This paper aims at the problem of federeated learning for causal inference with multi-site data through a new estimator given by (5) and (8).
This estimator is intuitive and has some properties like multiply-robust, and the idea is cool.
This method allows covariate shift and covariate mismatch across the sites, which relaxes the classical assumption in causal inference with multiple source data.
The proposed method is multiply robust and can handle covariate mismatches among different sites.
The theoretical analysis about the proposed estimator's bias and variance is provided.
The experimental results are promising.
This paper tackles an interesting problem.
I believe the community will find their results of interest.
Some particular strenghts: - The proposed StarSSE method is well motivated and performs well on the datasets they examine.
It seems like a practical modernization of SSE in the era of pre-trained networks.
- I found the result particularly interesting: that if you leave the "basin" of the pre-trained model then you lose the benefits of pre-training.
Originality: The authors find that Snapshot Ensembles degrade in performance over subsequent snapshots, a key observation that inspires their "Star SSE".
StarSSE is not a particularly large departure from SSE's, but it does seem to address a key limitation, Quality: The methodology and experimental setup seem sound, so given additional verification (see weaknesses) I would trust the result generalizes.
Clarity :The paper is clear and easy to follow.
Significance: Ensembles and pre-training are both crucial techniques in ML, any attempts to merge the strengths of both in easy-to-implement ways has strong impact.
I'm a big fan of papers like this since their primary aim to build solid understanding for people that already work with diffusions but that may have some doubts about how the common moving parts relate to each other (noise schedules, elbo weighting, parameterizations, etc).
On top of the above, they also present great results for ELBO trained models, whereas there is some common beliefs that non-elbo "perceptual weighting" (what the authors call "reweighted losses") are the only ones that can be used for good image quality.
* Among all degrees of freedom for the implementation of a diffusion-based generative model, setting the weights at each noise level for the objective function, and noise scheduling, are two crucial aspects for its success that have traditionally been mainly based on empirical choices.
By addressing these two aspects with a systematic and rigorous approach, this work fills an important gap for the diffusion model research community, thus is a well-motivated and potentially very beneficial work.
* By recasting the diffusion model objective under the restriction of the weighting function as an ELBO objective, the work can bring back this important class of objective functions along with the existing literature on training with an ELBO objective.
* The paper proposes several new monotonic weighting functions for the weighted diffusion objective.
* The paper is overall well-organized and clearly written: it can be viewed as a good reference that introduces the diffusion-based generative modeling framework collectively; the color-coding for different components of the objective functions is a good design for presenting derivations.
Although not shown in this work, the interpretation that denoising diffusion with monotonic weighting trains ELBO with data augmentation means that the same data augmentation can be applied to other likelihood-based models for a fair comparison to diffusion models.
And, we would have a clearer understanding of sample quality and likelihood of various model classes.
I am not an expert in this field and haven’t had any prior experience working in this field, so my evaluations are an educated guess.
Quality and significance: The authors conducted extensive experiments benchmarking 12 trojans and 16 feature attribution/saliency tools.
The authors also included a comprehensive discussion section with honest limitations, which I highly appreciate.
So I think this paper meets the quality and significance standard.
Originality: the authors proposed two novel variants of the best performing methods, though the first one “robust feature level adversaries via a generator” is only marginally novel.
So I think this paper is on the borderline of the originality standard.
• The paper investigates a useful and important research question in the field of interpretability research: "how do we objectively quantify and measure the quality of interpretable explanations?".
• The trojan task proposed by the authors is a clever proxy for measuring human interpretability of explanations.
• The authors run an actual human study to measure the usefulness of interpretability tools to people, and their proposed evaluation is a solid measure of whether these tools provide utility.
• The authors are upfront about the limitations of their work and the need for diverse techniques other than theirs to create an effectve benchmark for interpretability tools
- Cappy represents a light-weight option to adapt LLMs to a given target task which requires no updating of parameters to the LLM nor any back-propagation through the LLM whatsoever (e.g.
this is not true for adapter layers or prompt tuning).
- Moreover, even without adapting to a given task, Cappy presents some benefits over generic LLM sampling methods for task-specific predictions.
- Additionally, Cappy can ostensibly be added on top of any LLM without additional training (i.e.
train once, use anywhere).
- Cappy is a very simple idea, and is easy to understand, yet the usage of a scorer in this capacity, as well as the training and data augmentation scheme, is novel to the best of my knowledge.
- The ablation study is helpful in demonstrating the benefits of the proposed pre-training and data-augmentation scheme.
The idea of leveraging a lightweight scorer as a ‘’filter’’ is interesting.
Fine-tuning the filters on downstream tasks can be efficient and practical.
The paper is superbly written and presents a very interesting technique, improving one of the main building blocks of UCB algorithms that have been used for over a decade without any substantial changes.
The proposed techniques make use of techniques that have recently gained popularity for mean estimation and proving PAC-Bayesian generalization bounds.
The derivations up until the end of Section 5 are very neat and satisfying, and I believe that everyone interested in confidence ellipsoids and linear bandits should find them interesting.
#### **The following are the strengths of the paper:** 1.
The performance of any upper confidence bound (UCB) based bandit algorithm depends on the tightness of the confidence bounds.
This paper proposes a novel way (using the tail bound for adaptive martingale mixtures) to improve the upper confidence bound, leading to an improved UCB-based bandit algorithm with a smaller regret.
The authors propose two novel methods for computing the confidence bounds: Convex Martingale Mixture UCB (CMM-UCB) and Analytic Martingale Mixture UCB (AMM-UCB).
CMM-UCB uses a convex solver for the UCB maximization (gradient differentiable convex optimization), whereas AMM-UCB uses a weak Lagrangian duality to obtain an analytic UCB (gradient can be computed in closed-form or via standard automatic differentiation procedures).
When the mixture distribution is a Gaussian distribution, the authors showed the sub-linear data dependent/ independent cumulative regret for CMM_UCB and AMM-UCB.
The author also empirically validated the performance gain of the proposed methods over existing linear bandit algorithms.
Paper is _very_ well written.
Method introduced is neat and the perspective taken in deriving it will be of interest to other researchers in adaptive regression/design.
(1) This paper explores the feasibility of jointly using the foundation models (such as the vision-language model MineCLIP and pre-trained policy model VPT) for solving decision-making problems and shows a preliminary conclusion.
(2) Using unCLIP approach to solve instruction-following decision-making problems is interesting.
(3) This paper proposes to improve the instruction sensitivity with the classifier-free guidance technique, which is interesting and reasonable.
(4) The paper is well-written and easy to follow.
This paper proposes a novel technique for instruction-tuning video game RL-agent which is inspired by previous unCLIP method in the text-to-image generation field.
This idea is interesting and the method can turn an RL agent into a goal-conditioned one which shows great potential for designing a more general RL agent.
The experiment part shows that the tuned agent can follow short-horizon goal instructions very well.
When given the appropriate textual instruction, the proposed method collects 66x more dirt, 4.5x more wood, 28x more seeds, and travels 3x further than the unconditional agent.
The paper is easy to follow.
The study of compositionality in diffusion models is a crucial problem to understand.
The authors studied it in a controlled setting which is novel.
- As mentioned in the paper, solving self-consistent Field (SCF) equation is of great significance in computational science for its connection to the Schrödinger equation.
So proposing a novel approach, to overcome the non-convergence issues of the traditional fixed-point iteration methods for solving such equations, is important.
- The authors also mentioned that, this is the first steps in devising PCA-based algorithms for converging non-linear equations.
So further study in this direction can help solving other such relevant problems.
The paper is well presented, simple and shows very good results on a task that is seemingly impossible to solve with other methods.
This is a well-written paper on an interesting problem in computational science.
* Experiments show good results for their methods.
-This paper presents a thorough analysis of the shortcut learning problem.
-The authors propose a novel solution, MARG-CTRL, which has been shown to effectively mitigate shortcut learning in several tasks.
-The paper is well-written and easy to understand.
* The paper addresses a very important topic of the simplicity bias, and goes a significant way in addressing it.
* The comments and explanations are clear and concise, and follow a clear narrative.
* I find the arguments that inductive bias towards uniform margins for perception tasks to be convincing.
* The experiments are well conducted and clearly support their statements
The paper is well written and easy to follow.
Interesting use of mechanistic interpretrability to analyze how pretrained ViTs solve same-different tasks: discrimination and relational match-to-sample (RMTS).
The paper shows that early layers of CLIP pretrained ViTs demonstrate local attention for within object processing (perceptual stage), whereas the later layers demonstrate global attention for between object processing (relational stage).
The two stage processing doesn’t form strongly for the other pretrained models (DINO and ImageNet) especially the relational stage.
The perceptual stage is characterized by disentangled object representations (color and shape).
Models trained from scratch can be enforced to have disentangled representations using an auxiliary loss which is enough for generalization in simple relational tasks like discrimination but not for RMTS task.
- Addresses an important drawback of supposedly generalist vision models - Clear demonstration and definition of tasks that the paper focus on (e.g.
Figure 1) - Thorough analysis, both in terms of performance metrics and model mechanism, of results - Abundant visualization of results - Constructed dataset and tasks that can benefit future studies of this topic
This paper defined a novel avenue with inspiration from mechanistic interpretability to understand the working mechanism of CLIP ViTs.
And proposed approaches to study them with attention analyses.
- The paper is well written and easy to follow.
- Its key idea is using the quadratic loss formulation of score matching, which is equivalent to the ELBO of diffusion models.
The authors employ Lagrangian duality to update both the parameters of the diffusion model and dual variables of constraints.
While Lagrangian duality is commonly used for constrained optimization, particularly for constrained generative models, see [1,2,3], this paper first introduces this approach for diffusion models.
- Thanks to the quadratic loss minimization of diffusion models, the authors can establish the convergence of the proposed constrained models.
I think this is the most novel part of the paper.
[1] Liu et al., Sampling with trustworthy constraints: a variational gradient framework , NeurIPS 2021.
[2] Danilo et al., Generalized ELBO with Constrained Optimization, GECO, Bayesian Deep Learning (NeurIPS 2018).
[3] Ferdinando et al., Lagrangian Duality for Constrained Deep Learning, ECMLPKDD 2020.
The paper provides a thorough study on the KL-constrained diffusion models: both optimization and sampling aspects are considered.
The paper is overall interesting (methodologically).
I also checked most proofs, and they are correct.
The ablation study on the NMR dataset (Table 3) provides valuable insights into the contribution of different components (skip connections, LPIPS loss) to the model's performance.
The approach is simple, and shows promise in transfer learning, few-shot learning, and domain generalization
The paper is well organized and the core ideas are explained clearly.
The results on rotated and blocked MNIST are impressive, which demonstrated that in the latent space, the variant and invariant parts are easier to be disentangled.
The experimental design is comprehensive, covering multiple brain areas (M1, PMd, S1), multiple monkeys, and a variety of task conditions including curved reaching movements, and the statistical rigor is evident in the consistent performance across multiple sessions and conditions.
The benchmarking against six other dimensionality reduction techniques provides a thorough evaluation of NER's performance.
Extensive figures and graphs were used to illustrate the statistical results of the paper, most of which were informative and well-designed.
The effectiveness of NER is significant and proven to exceed the performance of multiple other methods under different tasks.
This paper is strongly motivated, well structured and pleasant to read.
It studies the problem of implicit bias for multiclass classification with losses not limited to cross-entropy, bridging the binary-multiclass gap.
The PERM framework provides an elegant tool for analyzing multiclass classification problems, and in my opinion, this paper is technically solid.
I have not gone through the proofs of lemmas in the appendix, but the analysis in the main paper looks correct to me.
The paper is very well-written and well-organized, making it easy to follow.
While the implicit bias of gradient descent has been widely studied for binary classification, its extension to multiclass classification is relatively sparse and mainly restricted to cross-entropy loss.
This paper addresses a broad class of PERM losses, extending the concept of the exponential tail through the "template" of the loss.
The result is both interesting and significant.
The theoretical results are convincing.
While the proof largely follows Soudry et al.
[2018], the analysis is nontrivial.
Additionally, the proof idea is laid out in a clear manner.
This is a strong technical paper (even though I would like to ask several questions to the authors to be convinced of the soundness of the proof; see "Questions" section).
The paper is easy to follow and read.
The method seems to solve the common lack of demonstration data issue in the current LLM fine-tuned paradigm.
The method seems to be novel.
The paper proposes a data synthesis approach for training UI agents.
It combines WikiHow plans and actual observations with the strength of GPT-based models to fill in the gaps.
the approach is agnostic to any domain and can serve as a good initialization.
- The paper is well-motivated, and for some sections clearly written - Creative usage of two different data sources, tutorials and snapshots, to complement each other - Makes progress towards building competent LLM-agents - Demonstrates that synthetic trajectories improve benchmark performances.
The paper derives a universality result that allows replacing Gaussian data with more general distributions.
It then analyzes the generalization error in linear regression and classification for SGD initialized at a model pre-trained on the source data.
The study shows that when the noise in the data is high, fine-tuning can be harmful, and just using the model pre-trained on the source data results in a lower error.
Conversely, when the noise is less than the error of the model pre-trained on the source data, transfer learning improves test performance.
- The paper is straightforward and easy to understand.
The authors did a good job making it accessible, and the presentation and sectioning help in grasping the content.
- This work seeks to understand the limitations of VLMs through the lens of human cognition, which could provide valuable insights.
- Originality in the problem statement: In terms of performance, VLMs in their normal regime are equivalent to humans in time-limited tasks.
- The investigation utilizes various types of experiments, each guided by studies conducted on humans, and they look easy to redo and the empirical results seem relevant.
This is a good paper -- it gives a cognitive-science-based approach to understanding VLM behavior.
It is well-written and has a mostly clear discussion of hypotheses, experiments, and results.
*Originality* The underlying question is timely and well motivated.
The cognitive science derived approach is principled and the authors perform a number of interesting experiments to further delineate the issues underlying counting in VLMs.
*Quality* The submission is technically sound.
I don't agree with all resulting claims, but the methods are appropriate.
*Clarity* The submission is clearly written and follows a good outline.
*Significance* The paper yields new data which allows for unique conclusions, however the scope of the investigation is somewhat limited.
1 This paper provides a clear motivation to consider the semi-random matrix completion problem and clearly explains the limitations of previous methods.
2 This paper provides an interesting fast iterative method for this problem and shows that it achieves improved sample complexity and runtime.
3 This paper utilizes the techniques by Kelner, Li, Liu, Sidford, and Tian and make interesting modifications based on new sights on this semi-random problem.
The paper provides the first high-accuracy and noise-tolerant nearly-linear time algorithm for matrix completion in the semi-random setting, improving upon previous work in terms of accuracy, condition number dependence, and noise handling.
The iterative method based on local reweighting and adaptive subproblems is a novel approach that enables the improved guarantees.
Using flow algorithms for the reweighting subproblems is a key technical innovation.
The polylogarithmic dependence on the target accuracy $\epsilon$ and lack of dependence on condition number are significant improvements over previous nearly-linear time algorithms.
This paper constitutes an important step towards understanding algorithms that don't implicitly overfit to statistical assumptions present in the model.
In practice, one probably shouldn't assume that entries are revealed i.i.d with distribution Bernoulli(p).
The model studied in this paper (Definition 2) is much more realistic than the i.i.d random entry model.
Furthermore, the improvements in this work over the previous state of the art, [CG18], are quite strong.
In particular, the authors get a condition-free, high-accuracy recovery guarantee in $\ell_{\infty}$.
Furthermore, the algorithm runs in nearly linear time in the number of revealed entries.
The paper is very well written and the main ideas are clearly presented.
The algorithmic ideas will be very interesting to anyone in the algorithmic statistics and convex optimization communities.
Using network to approximate prediction explanation of various explanation methods seem an interesting idea.
Using noisy labels to train the approximation model is also well justified with corresponding proofs.
Experiments covers the various scenarios from feature to instance based explanation approaches.
- The paper is well-written, with clear motivations and a thorough discussion of related work.
The technical details appear sound and well-presented.
- The proposed approach offers a simple yet effective framework for accelerating computationally expensive XML methods, potentially enabling their application to large-scale datasets.
- The authors provide code (with good documentation) and detailed experimental information in the Appendix for reproducability.
- Limitations of the proposed approach are well discussed, demonstrating a balanced perspective.
- Comprehensive experiments across multiple XML tasks (Shapley values, Banzhaf values, LIME, and data valuation) consistently demonstrate the benefits of stochastic amortization over per-example computation.
The authors provide a principled way to construct a backdoor via cryptographic hash implementations and evaluate the backdoor’s robustness and elicitation to two techniques.
The authors mention creating and releasing a set of benchmarks as synthetic models with backdoors for future research as part of their contributions.
- The "encrypted backdoor" is novel, technically interesting, and successful.
- The paper defeats LAT and is an improvement over other weight-based backdoors.
- The paper identifies and evades the "thin bottleneck" problem.
- Quantitative evaluations of the method's robustness against elicitation and comparison to previous methods - Clear demonstration and visualization of the backdoor insertion and encryption process - Clear exposition of previous works on attack and defense to motivate the work (Section 3 and Figure 4)
The authors introduce a novel method for embedding unelicitable handcrafted backdoors into autoregressive transformer language models, which are resistant to elicitation even with full white-box access.
The paper is fairly well written and clear.
Going beyond the standard linear regression task to study ICL was great to see as well.
The main selling point for me are the empirics though---I really like the results!
The visualization of how the model represents concepts relevant to this paper's setup is quite beautiful: the circle of circles was fascinating to look at and, arguably, not something I expected.
In retrospect, I can rationalize this as making sense---we get circular embeddings in grokking, so circle of circles is the logical geometrical extension here.
Results on scaling are interesting in their own right as well.
- This work introduces a new algorithmic dataset (with modular arithmetic tasks) that force models to learn a variety of tasks.
The work finds that when the number of tasks goes from small to large, the model transitions from memorization to generalization.
- This work has many interesting experiments.
I found Section 5.2 (Attention Heads Implement Essential Skills) pretty interesting.
I thank the authors for submitting their excellent work which stands to have a substantial impact in the science of deep learning.
* The work makes a meaningful contribution to an exceptionally important and interesting topic of the emergence of capabilities and internal mechanisms in deep learning.
* The setting and experiments neatly isolate and clearly demonstrate several interesting phenomena of emergence of capabilities and shifting in the solutions found by deep networks throughout training, contributing to the field's developing catalogue of examples of these phenomena.
* Moreover, the proposed synthetic problem is both rich and elegant.
I expect this framework will become a fruitful test-best for follow-up work studying emergence phenomena, helping the field to improve our empirical and theoretical understanding of these phenomena.
* The authors also offer a partial behavioural and mechanistic analysis which is a solid starting point for a more detailed understanding of the learned structures that emerge in this setting.
* While some elements of the analysis are complex, the authors have done an exceptional job of clearly presenting their findings.
I feel careful study of each section and figure in the main text was rewarded since there was no question that occurred to me that was not addressed in the authors' clear descriptions or figures.
* The authors have acknowledged all of the related work that I am aware of.
- The paper is easy to follow.
- The experiments are well-designed, providing compelling support for the claims.
- The results in Figure 5 are cool.
- The skill decomposition discussed in section 5 is great.
The clear pattern in attention heads verifies it very well.
(The hypotheses could be further verified if the author can link the values of $c_1, c_2$ to some weights in the network, see the question part.)
The paper conduct experiments to challenge the belief of (1) "overparameterization helps or hurts robustness" and (2) show the impact of different class-balancing methods, 2.
They conducted comprehensive experiments to explore and reveal the "nuances" in different directions across vision & language tasks, and propose suggestions when facing those scenarios.
They propose a mixture method to outperform 2 prior common practices, subsetting and mini-batch class-balancing upsampling.
The central idea of the mixture method is interpolate subsetting and upsampling.
The authors provide important incremental advances to our understanding of subsetting and upsampling in this subfield; I.E., subsetting can be effective except when there is a small minority group present in the majority class, and ERM with class-balanced upsampling experiences a catastrophic collapse in test accuracy over the course of training.
The decision to study the impact of model scaling on worst-group accuracy in a new setting — finetuning pretrained models — which more closely resembles practical use-cases -- is a welcome incremental contribution.
The finding documented in Fig.
5 that the largest eigenvalue in each dataset belongs to a minority group and minority group eigenvalues are overall larger than majority group eigenvalues within the same class is a useful, if not terribly surprising, extension of [4].
The authors propose a simple yet effective method that provides good performance for all of the datasets tested.
The over-parametrization and spectral imbalance empirical analysis are of independent interest.
Scientists who are interested in developing and implementing the RL agents in real life will find this experimental paper important.
The paper is technically sound and provides simulation support for the claims.
The authors provide a nice discussion of the weaknesses of SFL (proposed version works only for binary outcome, deterministic environment).
I have not gone over the github site; aside from the points made below, replicability is good.
The learnability score is original (obvious after reading the paper, but perhaps not before).
This score nicely takes advantage of the JaxNav environment which provides fast training of an RL agent.
Related work is adequately cited and it is very clear how SFL differs from the 3 UED methods discussed.
- This paper is well-written, clearly expresses the motivation and the gap in the literature, and illustratively analyses the failure of existing UED methods in navigation tasks.
- Their contribution is a simple yet novel UED approach called SFL that explicitly addresses this failure mode.
Their empirical results through two evaluation protocols highlight that SFL is robust (in terms of CVaR-based metrics) and outperforms existing approaches in expected return/success.
- I agree with the authors' claim that existing UED methods claim robustness yet fail to quantify it accurately.
Hence, the robustness evaluation protocol utilized in this work may be considered new in the UED literature.
The figures are very helpful for the understanding of the paper.
The paper is well-organized and easy to follow.
Section 2 is, by in large, excellent, and does a very good job of summarizing the existing work in this area.
The concept of polarity is clearly defined and well supported via the helpful example in Fig.
The tighter bounds in Sec.
4 are well-described and scoped.
As far as I am aware, the notion of an ensemble's polarity around which the paper is developed is a novel concept.
The derived bounds based on polarity are stronger than previously known bounds and even subsume some of them, for example those based on the notion of competent ensembles.
Overall, the paper is well-written, concise, and would be valuable to the wide audience working on predictive optimization and ensemble models.
The use of the notion of polarity is novel and seems to capture two relevant properties simultaneously: (a) whether a large fraction of classifiers are making an incorrect prediction, and (b) whether the predictions of large groups of classifiers differ from each other.
This characterization specially seems to assist in handling the presence of multiple classes as well.
The conjectured upper bound on polarity is also independently interesting.
I liked the focus on entropy-restricted ensembles.
The focus on ensembles with quantifiable “disagreement properties“ (as in Thms 3, 4) allows for stronger bounds on majority vote error rate, although it does seem difficult to then derive bounds for these “disagreement properties” (like the parameter $\delta$).
Nevertheless, the approach of bounding majority vote error rate using disagreement notions is intuitively appealing and, as the paper shows, it does provide reasonable theoretical bounds.
**Significance**: Hand-tuning plasticity rules can be tedious and suboptimal, so automated methods are important for the more efficient and effective design of models.
By applying this method to a neural network model of sequence generation (specifically, a model of HVC), this work tests the procedure in a new setting and also develops a more robust plasticity rule for sequence-generating dynamics.
**Novelty**: It seems the novelty is in the application of this method to a HVC model and the evaluation of the learned plasticity rules under a variety of conditions.
If there are other contributions, it would be helpful to be clearer about contextualizing this in the related work.
**Technical quality**: This work provided an extensive evaluation of the model in a variety of conditions.
The analysis of the discovered plasticity rules was particularly interesting.
**Presentation clarity**: The methods and results are clearly explained.
This paper is conceptually significant, presenting the novel idea that local synaptic plasticity could be crucial for maintaining inductive biases in the form of intrinsically-maintained computational motifs.
These internally generated dynamics must interact with synaptic changes induced by supervised learning—they need to support this form of learning without being overwhelmed by it.
This perspective introduces a fresh angle to the understanding of the function and origin of local plasticity rules.
The authors primarily focus on identifying synaptic rules that can create stable inductive motifs resilient to perturbations.
The analyses presented are thorough and convincingly support this point.
The use of meta-learning to estimate these plasticity rules is an innovative approach.
Additionally, the detailed examination of the estimated rule offers an interpretable outcome from a complex machine learning technique - a rare occurrence in the field.
A particular strength of the paper is its exploration of not only E-E but also E-I and I-E rules.
Furthermore, the authors again analyse the estimated rule in a manner that provides interpretable outcomes.
The paper tackles an interesting problem with a relatively straightforward set-up, which makes it easily understandable.
It has a very high density of results, which are technically sophisticated as well as relevant for many questions in neuroscience.
- The method uses interesting biological concepts, including both excitatory and inhibitory signals, and local Hebbian-like rules.
- The study analyses various properties of the evolved neural circuits, including robustness to perturbation and robustness to synaptic turnover.
- The model includes the use of noise, an important factor that affects both biological and artificial systems.
- The computational study supports the idea, not new in biology, that both excitatory and inhibitory synapses are important in maintaining equilibrium.
- The method allows for testing of particular hypothesis, e.g., the utility of dense feedforward connectivity.
This paper is well-written and the figures are very easy to understand.
The experiment was very thorough, comparing the routing results of different routers, and verifying the effectiveness of the method in optimizing overlap.
The Overflow-avoiding RST Construction proposed by the author is novel and effective.
Meanwhile, NeuralSteiner is the first learning-based approach capable of optimizing both wirelength and overflow.
+ NeuralSteiner is empirically proven to be effective in reducing overflow in the global routing task.
Equipped with the CNN structure, NeuralSteiner is capable of recognizing the candidate points, and the RST construction further reduces overflow significantly.
+ A parallel technique is proposed to route the non-conflicting nets simultaneously, which can relieve the time-consuming plight.
+ The experiments show a significant improvement in overflow.
In particular, for the case of newblue01, the wirelength and overflow both surpass most traditional global routing approaches.
The paper is well organized.
Detailed background introduction is included.
Introducing the Factorized Self-Attention Module (FSAM) for computing multi-dimensional attention from voxel embeddings.
Evaluation of FSAM and FactorizedPhys against state-of-the-art rPPG methods 4.
Integration of FSAM into existing 2D-CNN-based and 3D-CNN-based rPPG architectures to demonstrate its versatility.
- Constructing the APIBench with AST tree matching evaluation metrics as well as open-sourcing the trained Gorilla model will be largely benefit to the community.
- The problem in this paper is timely in terms of LLM applications and eco-systems — i.e., automatizing API function calls.
- The fine-tuned model, Gorilla, surpasses performance compared to current SOTA models.
- The paper is well written and soundly provides experiment results and analysis.
- The concept of pseudo-program and LLM emulation of program is interesting.
- The authors evaluated the methodology on many different dataset and tasks.
Paper is well-written and easy to follow.
All the analyses and results are clearly presented.
The CoGEX model provides a useful datapoint on understanding how well LLMs can benefit from program-like planning without relying on an external program interpreter.
Allowing the model to use ‘primitive’ functions that are difficult to define programmatically offers greater flexibility than relying on interpreters and the ability to query for factual information.
- The proposed method appears to strike a nice balance between the rigidity of code-structured reasoning and freeform CoT, as it performs well across domains where CoT excels and ones where it struggles.
- Being able to specialize reasoning for a particular task by selecting a pseudo-program is neat.
It also appears to work well with a much smaller number of examples than are required to effectively fine-tune a model.
- The authors do a very good job of proactively answering natural questions with their ablations in section 3.3.
- As for clarity of exposition, all the writing is easy to follow and the paper is laid out intuitively.
Originality: 3.5 / 5 This paper examines how the number of datapoint samples affects the learning of compositional tasks in existing transformer-based large language models (LLMs).
The authors created a new, challenging compositional dataset based on computation graphs and demonstrated that learning compositional tasks with LLMs is highly data-inefficient.
While the BIG-bench paper indicates the insufficiency of reasoning and compositional abilities in LLMs, this paper innovatively provides a concrete, quantitative, and extensive study on the extent of this insufficiency.
Quality: 3.5/5 The empirical study is pretty extensive with both LLaMA, GPT-4 and Gemini.
There are multiple prompting techniques adopted with GPT-4 and Gemini, all of them fails to generate a reliable result.
There are also very interesting theotrical proofs in the appendix to bolster the authors' claims.
Clarity: 3/5 Figure 1 is hard to understand just by staring at the graph.
For each task, it only provides one example which is non-trivial at all.
One can hardly figure out its ground truth program for each example, and whether in a task of PE, is the underlying program the same across all the datapoints.
I believe a descriptive caption by the side of each task is necessary.
For example, PE refers to a program that takes a sequence of words and returns a list of words all colored green, where the first output word matches the first input word, and any subsequent output word starts with the last two characters of the previous word.
However, the figures and tables in the experimental section are pretty clear and helpful to understand.
Significance: 2.5/5 Understanding the problem of the data inefficiency in transformer based LLMs is important to the community which focuses on data efficiency and reasoning, such as neuro-symbolic community.
1- The paper is well-written and well-organized.
2- The quantized approach is evaluated on a variety of tasks that show the generalizability of the new approach.
3- The Sign-m-SPSA-SGD approach is interesting and novel.

========== WEAKNESSES (2148) ==========
Although this work studies whether LLM can be used for evaluating the quality of free-text explanations, the conclusions in this work are a bit weak.
First of all the scale of 3500 examples is not large, and meanwhile, with the conclusion that LLMs are not reliable for explanation evaluation, how LLMs can be used for this task are less discussed in this work.
For example, whether evaluating on each criteria and later gathering can help the performance.
This work only focuses on causal structure of programming languages.
It is unclear whether it is easy to extend the proposed latent probing framework to natural language.
Additional discussions should be provided in the paper.
Experiments only involve an LM trained from scratch.
It would be helpful to include evaluations on pretrained LMs.
There are some typos in the paper, such as "we refer the ready to" in Section 2.1.
- quantitative evaluation can be improved to show statistical significance of the results.
figure 4, in particular, should include sample sizes and appropriate error measurements.
- the effectiveness of multi-agent over single agent should be more carefully examined.
the performance gap in experiment A1 is mainly from tool usage, and it's unclear whether it's human-in-the-loop scenario.
- didn't do enough analyses of failure modes in A1-A6.
My main problem is that it is hard to judge the contributions of this work from a research perspective both because, as the abstract states, the papers main proposal is an open source framework and also because the experimental setup needs a lot of improvement.
The proposal of "conversation programming" seems also vague and its not clear how it is different from a generic multi-agent framework.
To put it in concrete terms: - Most of the manuscript reads more like the documentation of a software package than a research paper.
It contains a lot of description of software abstractions such as classes and general descriptions of the package's features and even usage of flags or variable values.
The software-like description makes it hard to isolate the concrete components that contribute to the experimental setup's results.
- The experimental setup itself is also lacking.
Many of the results are also missing from the main paper and moved to the Appendix e.g RaG.
These results are important enough that they should be on the main body of the manuscript.
The experiments in the Appendix seem also not standard, using a small number examples and oddly organized with a general lack of tables.
- It seems like the original manuscript was far longer ans it has been split between body and appendix in a way that makes it hard to follow.
The claimed multi-agent system is more accurately described as multi-prompting.
More convincing evidence would be provided by observing dialogues under different conditions within the agents themselves.
The major concern lies in the inherent differences from other multi-agent frameworks, such as CAMEL (NeurIPS 2023) and MetaGPT (ICLR 2023).
In the related work and discussion, the paper assert no explicit restrictions on the number of agents and whether tools are supported to distinguish from previous works.
In my opinion, these are not very strong justifications.
My only concern is I don’t know how easy it is for the multi-agent system to achieve the reported superior performance compared to single LLM solutions.
Do you have to try a lot of different designs to make it happen or your first several intuitive designs would work?
Are there difficulty level differences between domains for autogen?
In other words, have you observed that for some applications, you really have to try very hard and try a lot of different designs to make it work better than GPT-4 while for other apps it was very easy?
Analysis towards this direction can be very helpful.
Aligning the concept of molecular to text generation is useful, which will help us to understand the properties of unknown or new molecules.
In such a case, it is more natural for me to understand the necessity of molecule-to-text generation instead of text-guided molecular generation.
The technical novelty is limited, but it is acceptable.
- Figure 1 is confusing; the encoder and condition should be inputted together into the diffusion model.
- The legends in Table 1 are incorrect for the datasets ChEBI-20 and PubChem.
- Tables 1 and 2 could be merged to reduce redundancy.
- How to obtain the ground truth graph of a generated molecule when calculating similarity if the descriptions of the two texts are very similar.
Additional experiments, such as retrieval tasks, should be conducted to validate the alignment of representations between text and molecular graphs.
- Does the case study use examples taken from the training set?
- It is inappropriate to express improvements in novelty and diversity as the percentage increases.
The statement '3M-Diffusion achieves 146.27% novelty and 130.04% diversity relative improvement over the SOTA method' should be rephrased to better reflect these metrics.
- Due to the lack of distinctiveness in the similarity, novelty, diversity, and validity metrics, it would be beneficial to identify additional indicators for assessing the algorithm, such as plotting the distribution of logP and QED.
- Why is there such a significant difference between the prompts in Figure 2 and Figure 3?
The prompt in Figure 3 includes the molecular components, whereas Figure 2 only provides a simple description of properties.
The disparity is too significant.
The paper's statement, 'For example, the structure of ethanol can be specified using CCO, OCC, or C(O)C,' requires supporting evidence.
If the method for generating SMILES is consistent, would this issue not exist?
* In Introduction, the authors promised results on the GuacaMol benchmarks, yet these results are absent from the subsequent sections.
* The evaluation metrics in Table 1 and Table 2 are insufficient.
Why are the evaluation metrics from MolT5 (*e.g.*, BLEU, Exact, Levenshtein, MACCS) missing in this work?
* **Unconditional molecule generation (Table 5)** * Since no textual condition is used, the comparison should include baselines in [1].
* Table 5 should be moved to the main body of the paper.
* Table 1 and Table 2 have the same caption, yet the contents are different.
The authors should specify the distinct contents of each table to avoid confusion.
[1] Molecular Sets (MOSES): A Benchmarking Platform for Molecular Generation Models.
In Frontiers in Pharmacology, 2020.
Overall, the reviewer thinks that this work does not have major weakness.
1) The proposed method requires logins so it cannot be applied on closed-source MLLMs.
2) It would be great to report results on more datasets.
Currently there is only one dataset used for verifying the safety enhancement.
Typos: Equation 4 seems missing a right parenthesis.
The table description is not very clear.
Lack of analysis: In Figure 3, it only presented 3 amplified coefficients and concluded that increasing it leads to more significant safety improvements.
- The expressiveness of the symbolic language is not theoretically defined and evaluated.
It is not clear whether it exhaustively covers complex spatial configurations of objects in a real world settings.
- The paper claims that the symbolic language is easy to use, but a users’ study that supports this claim is lacking.
- The contribution towards novel techniques to improve language modeling is not clear.
The paper rather suits a human-computer interaction venue.
- It is not surprising that the obtained results improve compared to zero- and few-shot chain-of-thought reasoning as the symbolic language has less complex patterns than natural language and is an unambiguous controlled language to attend to when querying the LLM, but it requires knowledge engineering expertise from the user.
- The paper seems to be written in a hurry and contains typos and grammatical errors.
- Overall, the paper is not yet mature to be published but the authors are encouraged to improve their work.
* The paper doesn't quantify thoroughly *when* and *why* CoS is beneficial.
While there are a diversity of comparisons, it would be useful to dig into some of them in more depth; for example, are there characteristic patterns of errors that CoT makes but CoS is more likely to avoid?
Conversely, where CoS makes an error, does CoT tend to make the same error, or are they uncorrelated?
- It would be even better if it were possible to link some of these analyses to the CoS itself; e.g.
showing that it contains more correct steps than the CoT.
- If possible, it would also be very interesting to quantify the distributional effects of the CoT to CoS switch along the lines of the proposed hypothesis above: for example, is the distribution over next tokens higher entropy in CoT than in CoS?
Could that help explain the benefit?
* It would be nice to see some evaluations on more challenging benchmarks like * If I understand correctly, in Fig.
3 "None" means no symbol or space between the letters; it seems to me that having a space would also be a useful comparison condition to run (to see if the eponymous symbols are actually critical, or if it's just necessary to have *some* break in between to avoid tokenizer weirdness).
I feel like there is not as much content in the paper as I would've expected for a 9 page paper but I think it might just be the COLM format.
And my MO for reviewing is to score based on soundness, so I won't dock the paper for this.
My biggest complaint is probably that I'm left with lots of questions about how the outcomes measured here vary with different model training methodologies.
I feel it would've been more useful to do this on, e.g., an open-source model, so that follow-up studies would be able to measure the effect of new training regimes (e.g., to explicitly encourage faithful error recovery).
EDIT: I actually agree with Reviewer kvJb's criticism that the study only focuses on these artificial/constructed errors, which may not resemble LLM errors in the wild, and that it feels more immediately important and impactful to study the kinds of errors that LLMs actually make.
But I feel that would require a pretty different kind of study than the current one, and wouldn't afford nearly as much control to study specific questions like the authors did in this case.
So it seems to me like it'd just be a different paper, and that sort of study would be hard to fit in as an extra with the work already presented here.
Perhaps a compromise would be to report some kind of aggregate of the likelihood ratios of your edits to the CoTs — i.e., when you insert the error, how does the likelihood of the CoT that you're prompting it with change from the original one?
If the likelihood doesn't go down by much, that is some evidence that the mistake is "plausible" (i.e., could happen by sampling).
This is a very insightful paper.
Actually I do not see any reasons to reject while I have some questions to authors.
Please see Questions To Authors
- There are few details of the evaluation setup.
For example, how many experts were used to evaluate the outputs?
Were the outputs anonymized?
- The system behind ScenarioNL is interesting but has several components that are not presented in detail.
It would be beneficial to have a more thorough description of exactly which components are used in ScenarioNL and which ones contribute the most to the overall performance.
In particular, are all the components needed?
- The RAG/RAG+HyDE performance is very high compared to the rest.
How did you ensure that the data store used does not contain examples that are similar to the solution?
The authors notably do not address the validity of the end visualization * The authors used a curious wording in the introduction to describe the problem they solve.
See the paragraph starting with Given the critical need for simulation based testing...
The paper is more like a technical report for solving a domain-specific code generation task via prompt engineering.
I find limited research interest out of it.
Though the paper tries to claim that their methods are not unique to Scenic, the generalizability is concerning.
ScenarioNL is more like a task-specific recipe.
I don't see how it can easily generalize to other domain specific languages.
As an application oriented paper, the discussion or evaluation on how useful the LLM-generated programs are for downstream training of autonomous driving systems is quite thin.
Shortcoming & Question: 1.It seems that there is no error bar in the results of experiments.
2.What about the comparison with MetaGPT?
3.The paper formatting can be improved, such as reducing the empty blocks within it.
I don't have any major concerns that would lead me to reject the submission of this article, although: 1.
As I said in summary, some crucial discussions should be included in main paper.
The improvement of DyLAN on the AR task is limited compared to other tasks.
What might cause this phenomenon?
**Extended Query on the Selection and Performance of Agents in the Initial Pool**: "Upon close examination of Figure 5 within the manuscript, there appears to be a lack of clarity regarding the roles adopted by the other agents involved in the code generation task.
It is noted that the 'programmer' and 'algorithm developer' agents seem to outperform the rest, which might suggest that these two agent roles are disproportionately influential in the task's outcome.
This observation raises the question of whether these two agent roles alone suffice for the task at hand.
Similarly, in the mathematical reasoning tasks, the 'programmer' and 'mathematician' agents are indicated as the primary contributors, prompting the inquiry of whether including agents with roles such as 'doctor' or 'economist' might be an overcomplication in the context of mathematical tasks.
If the initial agent pool is curated for specificity to different tasks, then the inclusion of seemingly irrelevant agents could be considered redundant and may detract from the efficiency of the overall system.
Could the authors provide insight into the rationale behind the selection of these varied roles and how their inclusion impacts the performance and generalizability of the DyLAN framework?" 2.
Upon reviewing Figures 5 and 6, it is observed that layers with an even number typically assume a critical function, evaluating the responses generated by the preceding odd-numbered layers.
This pattern suggests that the effectiveness of the DyLAN framework may be contingent upon the utilization of highly curated prompts tailored to fit each agent's distinct roles and scenarios.
The observed phenomenon raises concerns regarding the scalability and flexibility of the system, particularly in scenarios where the diversity of tasks and roles is substantial.
It would be beneficial for the authors to address the necessity for such detailed prompt curation and discuss potential strategies to streamline this process, ensuring that the framework remains adaptable across a wide array of tasks without compromising performance.
However, I find the paper to be of high quality overall; if the authors can provide clear and satisfactory responses to the queries raised, I would be willing to increase the points.
- The related work section is a weakness of this paper, as it only mentions studies related to determining whether a given sentence is LLM-modified.
The authors should indicate whether there are studies that analyze the proportion of LLM use as addressed in this paper, if they exist, what they are, and how this paper stands compared to those studies.
- [Minor] Page 5: "This approach also simulates how scientists may be using LLMs..." Need a citation here or another piece of evidence that supports your two-stage approach.
- [Minor] Figure 3 is hard to read.
I recommend changing y-axis to "error" instead.
That's the information I want to extract in any case.
- [Major] Sections 5.2, 5.3, and 5.4 are all done independently and in somewhat arbitrary ways.
for 5.2, paper are divided as two or fewer preprints vs three or more, and paper length as below or above 5000.
These cutoffs don't seem principally motivated, and the results may be different if they change.
Additionally, all of the analyses are done independently.
For these kinds of analyses, I recommend instead a fixed-effects model where the output (estimated alpha) is modeled as an output of multiple input factors simultaneously.
E.g.: datetime (bucketed), # of preprints (bucketed or not), arxiv category (categorical), distance to nearest neighbor (bucketed or not), pre-print posting.
Adding new ones is straightforward both conceptually and computationally, and you are then able to look at how any individual variable is correlated (via its coefficient size) to the output when taking all others into account.
It may be the case for example, that once you take into account # of preprints, the effect size of distance to nearest neighbor goes to 0.
What other factors can you include in your model that may be confounders?
- The simplicity and clarity of the datasets also has a disadvantage that it does not reflect models behaviour in complex contexts and for more nuanced epistemic values than just TRUE and FALSE, such (im)possible, rare, likely) - What does it really mean that a model “believes” a statement to be true or false?
This also relates to the previous point that being false and impossible is different from being false and possible.
There should be more discussion on this and also what this implies for using LLMs.
Given the emphasis placed on the framework, I am generally left dissatisfied: how do we arrive at this framework, why is it good, and how would it connect to a more theoretical account?
I am not even sure it makes sense to call it a framework: it seems more reasonable to say it is a way of assigning terms to some phenomena, which perhaps helps build common terminology, but I am not sure this really advanced my conceptual understanding.
While the paper is clear in a certain structural sentence, I found the writing more confusing than helpful in most places, perhaps because it is meandering.
Since this is a general comment, it is hard to isolate specific paragraphs that could benefit from re-writing, so I would say the key principle I feel is not upheld is each sentence does not have a clear rhetorical purpose, nor is the ordering of the sentences particularly deliberate as far as I can tell.
As a result, while I don't object to the writing, I feel it will not only inhibit my understanding but that of other readers.
Limited testing environments (architectural and task variation), but I don't think this is a strong reason to reject.
1, The existing works covered in the proposed analyzing framework are still limited.
For example, many recent works addressing modified position interpolations are not mentioned or discussed.
2, Using perplexity to evaluate long-context modeling ability solely may not be a choice.
The authors should consider using different down streaming tasks, even using \textit{needle in a haystack style} evaluation, which could be a better choice for illustration.
3, Different long-context modeling methods may need different amounts of fine-tuning data, it would be more convincing to plot the trends of using different amounts of fine-tuning data.
And it would be better give more about the statistics of the data (there have been several data engineering works to address the importance of fine-tuning data to improve the long-context modeling abilities.
4, The section 4.4 may not be a fair comparison.
The baselines can be supplemented.
The evaluation method can be enhanced.
The paper only considered evaluating perplexity of differenct models, however, it ignored some popular downstream tasks tailored for long-context LLMs, such as Needles in a Haystack [4], Document-based Q&A task [5].
I would suggest the author can evaluate their approach in those benchmarks.
[4] Kuratov et al, In Search of Needles in a 11M Haystack: Recurrent Memory Finds What LLMs Miss, [5] Ma et al, MEGALODON: Efficient LLM Pretraining and Inference with Unlimited Context Length,
**Weakness.** However, there are concerns in the following perspectives regarding the paper's quality.
- The value of the proposed framework is unclear.
Although the existing techniques are discussed based on the four dimensions introduced in this paper, very few insights can be drawn from the discussions.
- The technical novelty of this paper is limited.
This paper seems like a research-oriented paper.
However, the proposed method is merely a simple combination of the existing approaches.
- The experimental study needs to be improved.
Despite that the experiment presents preliminary results on language modeling, none of other important evaluation methods and benchmarks are included, like NIHS, topic retrieval, longbench, et.
The evaluations are limited to ppl metrics on language modeling dataset.
However, the recent research trend in long-context llm community do not regard the lower ppl as the sign for strong long-context understanding capability.
I strongly suggested that the authors could consider the e Needle-ina-Haystack tests, the long-document qa experiments, and the long-context in-context learning experiments.
The baselines are only trained for 0.1B tokens, which is a small data size for long-context adaptation.
Even if the recent consensus on the optimal long-context extension data size has decreased from 100B (Wang et al., 2023) to 5B (Fu et al., 2024), the 0.1B is too small to train the model to understand the long-context input well.
[Wang et al., 2023] Augmenting Language Models with Long-Term Memory [Fu et al.
2024] Data Engineering for Scaling Language Models to 128K Context
But I had several concerns about the paper in its current form: Weakness 1.
The conceptual comparison with previous methods for dataset generation such as SuperGen, ZeroGen, SunGen, ProGen, and Self-Instruct is weak.
It would be good to have the exact differences between these methods explained, e.g.
Similarly, the empirical comparison to these methods is weak.
There is only one comparison with Self-Instruct, and that is through tuning on the Self-Instruct dataset, which (as far as I know) was not specifically tailored to result in omdels that are good at the tasks in SuperGlue.
A more comprehensive comparison would have used Self-Instruct and the other related methods above to generate data specifically for the tasks in the SuperGlue dataset (like is done for TarGen), and demonstrate the differences caused by the proposed methodology, while keeping the task set constant.
There were not any ablations to elucidate the importance of each of the elements that went into TarGen.
The discussion of the V-usable information was unclear because (a) it was not explained exactly how v-usable information was calculated in the paper, and (b) it seems that the v-usable information actually diverges significantly from that of the original data, which seems like it is more of a problem than a positive trait.
- TarGEN only relied on ChatGPT and there was no comparison about how using a different LLM could affect the generated data.
The model performance in accuracy and truthfulness gets worse after applying RLKF, which may suggest the reward model is too strict in identifying the correct and wrong answers.
- The experiments are on a narrow range of problems (maths) - No code or data are released as part of the paper, making it hard to reproduce and build on.
- Whilst figure 7 shows strong results on the arithmetic data, figure 8 shows that the proposed method has limited effect on GSM8k, as compared to baselines.
The usefulness of the method depends on how the user balances accuracy and truthfulness.
The authors only show results on arithmetic datasets.
Would this method also work for other subjects that lead to hallucination, such as asking about recent events?
Maybe good to talk about that in the conclusion.
I feel like this presented method would be just *part of* a real-life system, with the other part being the calculator that would actually compute the correct answer.
Given that, I think it would be useful to show the performance of an LM+calculator system, with and without your method.
It could actually be that a baseline LM, not finetuned with your method, but with access to a calculator and a few in-context examples, would be substantially better than an LM with calculator but finetuned with your method.
Can you show that an LM+calculator+your method beats just LM+calculator?
Although this has been discussed in detail in the paper, I still think that the definition of harmfulness in the text is not promising.
Since the method used in the text is fully automated, the harmfulness of the generated text is also annotated by a model, which inevitably leads to unreliable harmfulness annotations in the dataset.
The generation process of the dataset seems pretty standard.
It is interesting to find new categories of fasle refusal.
However, even with the listed 10 categories, there might still be other cases that have not been studied yet.
I am wondering how it is useful to reveal these detailed categories.
For example, is it possbile to improve the alignment/defence on a given category
The content-steering process could be explained in more detail.
The writer LLM may not be able to generate desired pseudo-harmful prompts with x_{natural, harmless}.
I think the generation quality is severely limited by the writer LLM and the reference prompt.
How can the authors ensure that the writer LLM generates prompts within some specific categories, like "Compound term" or "Shared Property vs Privacy"?
Additional experiments or analysis on the effectiveness of content-steering would strengthen this part of the methodology.
The generated prompts may not transfer to other LLMs as being pseudo-harmful.
As the authors mention in Section 2, the definition of harmfulness is inherently complex and controversial.
Using a single target LLM to guide the generation process could introduce biases specific to that model.
To improve the generalizability of the generated prompts, the authors could consider using an ensemble of different target LLMs to mitigate model-specific biases.
The authors have one hyperparameter $\beta$ during the generation process of their dataset.
At the end of section 3.2, the authors discuss the potential function of $\beta$.
It’s better to give specific details about beta you choose or some simple experiments about the effect of $\beta$ to generate datasets.
In the Appendix, the authors set $y_{refusal}$ as “Sorry, I cannot assist with that.” It’s also better for authors to discuss the effect of different $y_{refusal}$ for generating datasets or give some case studies about this.
In observation 1 and Figure 9 about calculating AUC values, it’s better for authors to give a bit of detail about experiments.
- The novelty and technical complexity of the proposed method are quite basic.
It mainly translates texts from other languages into English and then uses the FactScore tool for evaluation.
There is no innovative approach or model created specifically for multilingual scenarios.
- The experiments do not compare the proposed method with any baseline methods.
It is unclear whether the proposed method is effective, even though it seems reasonable.
- The experiments only use Wikipedia as a data source, which limits how widely the proposed method can be applied.
Overall, the originality of the work is limited, it uses GPT3.5 for language translation then adapts an existing factuality method.
The paper can be improved by providing more details about FActScore, it is hard for readers to understand the approach with no knowledge of the method.
Experiments only use GPT3.5 and GPT4 for evaluation, it is better to have more baseline methods such as llama, mistral, etc.
I'd like to see the following two experiments: • Including at least one small experiment using a non-LLM translation compared to a translation LLM.
• Trying to see how FActScore would work on a language without translation.
Aka an experiment similar to section 4.1, but just done monolingually in the languages (such as Bengali generation and Bengali evaluation).
Detailed analysis of results is lacking 2.
The ambiguity in questions seems quite artificial, unclear whether this benchmark has any practical applications
* The write up has a few missing citations and could be improved.
Please refer to the suggested improvements in the next section.
- The writing is unclear in many places and should be revised before publication.
For example, in the section on augmentation quality it states “both annotators are self-identified AAL speakers,” but it isn't stated explicitly that there are two annotators judging each example and how the final rating is derived.
The description of the data subsets used on pg 6 ("5000 non-toxic texts and 5000 texts for the sentiment dataset") is also confusing.
- The sentiment detection eval seems very odd, given that there is no ground-truth for the sentiment.
Presumably if an example is labeled positive in WME, it shouldn't become negative just from a transformation into AAE, however this experiment could be conducted in a cleaner way to make it clear the outcome is a result of bias.
- The paper never really motivates the use of synthetic AAE instead of finetuning on a larger corpus of real AAE
Perhaps the authors should have explained better why these phonological features make their way to text, no where in the paper transcription is mentioned, so I assume (from the cited papers) most of the time people write these phonologically transformed text on social media.
I understand that the authors have resource constraints but the two main LLMs used in the experiments are quite old and even Mistral is considered a small model.
One cannot generalize these results and assume larger language models would behave similarly.
Apart from that, I really think this paper fits better in a conference like *CL as the linguistic content is quite rich but the LLM part is quite limited.
The method involves the labeling process of both large teacher model and human reviewers, which is complex and resource-consuming.
The experimental result on some arithmetic reasoning tasks achieves a very subtle improvement.
More seriously, it seems that some important baselines are missing, such as Automate-CoT.
The experiments are only conducted on GPT-3.5, which is a relatively weak LLM.
It would be better if the authors could provide the experimental results on other LLMs.
### Positioning - Connecting the causal structure of memories with action models (Arorea et al 2018) is a relevant choice.
However, the paper could include a brief discussion of previous approaches that use language as a means of abstraction for RL agents.
This encompasses for instance approaches before LLM agents [1,2], as well as methodologies leveraging LLMs [3].
- The following perspective paper [4] could be pertinent in the discussion of applying linguistic abstraction to goal-directed agents (highlighted by authors on page 3).
### Method's limitation - A minor limitation of the method is that, as always with the immense action space of text games, the approach (like ReAct and Reflexion) only works if we can provide the set of actions available at each time step.
- Experiments were only carried out using GPT-4 and could include other (maybe smaller) LLMs ### References [1] Language as an Abstraction for Hierarchical Deep Reinforcement Learning, Yiding Jiang, Shixiang Gu, Kevin Murphy, Chelsea Finn, NeurIPS 2019 [2] Language as a Cognitive Tool to Imagine Goals in Curiosity-Driven Exploration.
Misuse of the term continual learning: The term "continual learning" may be misleading.
In machine learning, continual learning typically refers to a model's ability to learn from a sequence of different tasks, often requiring the model to behave as if not all contents were observed simultaneously.
CLIN does not exhibit the characteristics of continual learning.
The term "learning" as used here is brief and may be more accurately described as few-shot learning with trial-and-error iterations.
The assignment of rewards for given actions are not specified clearly.
It is also good to study the influence using different feedback signals, reward scoring methods such as in Reflexion.
The authors should conduct experiments on more benchmark datasets such as hotpotQA, HumanEval.
How and where does the dynamic memory mechanism influence the model inference, and why it can help continue learning and adaptation to new tasks?
More ablation study and case study should be given.
- The main limitation is that domains (especially ALFWorld) have regularities and are relatively synthetic.
Thus, it is not surprising that causal abstractions can be learned and applied, given the current reasoning capabilities of LLMs.
It would make the paper much stronger if some more noisy and realistic domains can be tested, e.g.
Jericho/WebShop/WebArena/SWE-bench/etc.
Even if the results are not good, I would still think the results make the paper stronger, as it objectively reflects limitations of current methods and better point out future directions.
- There are many math notations but the explanation is not most intuitive.
I'd suggest some concrete examples to better illustrate the ideas.
+ The authors seem to have proposed a fairly complicated pipeline, making it difficult to understand which components actually contribute to the performance boost.
It would be nice if the authors can thoroughly analyze, does the main boost come from new prompting template, executor design, etc.?
+ Following the above point, the contribution and takeaways are not clear for readers + Prompting agents are, interesting, useful, but a bit handwavy.
I'm not sure how much of these tricks/methods can contribute in the long-term without sound statistical formulation for understanding and prompting LLMs.
I would probably want to see more exploratory analysis on the items described in the questions to authors, although I do not feel this is actually a reason to reject, given that this is a conference paper.
3.1 This paper needs to explain more deeply why this comparative method would lead to better evaluation results.
Specifically, why comparing with other dialogue can help the model to evaluate dialogue quality?
3.2 On page 2, the authors state "However, they find that exhaustive comparison between candidate responses is needed for reliable quality estimation of dialogues, resulting in an undesirable computational overhead.".
This is why they use moderate-sized open-source models, but the method in this paper requires fine-tuning the model and multiple calls to the model for one evaluation.
The undesirable computational overhead still exists.
A computation cost comparison between the LLM-based method and this paper should be conducted.
3.3 On page 2, the authors state "However, these approaches usually require exhaustive comparison operations or human-crafted candidate responses, which may not always be available.".
Since you state that human-crafted data has the above drawbacks, why do you still conduct experiments with human-crafted adversarial data (from previous research)?
May not be very generalizable since it requires training (e.g.
the authors use human-written negative responses)
Unless the authors commit to publishing the dataset free to the world upon acceptance of the paper, the paper should be rejected.
I believe the area chair should sort this out with the authors before deciding on publication.
I didn't understand the experimentation section very well.
I have no reason to reject this paper but I do have a lot of questions.
While the authors have shown that their method can improve the creativity of LLM outputs, it does appear to come at some cost to fluency.
In LM generation one can typically increase diversity trivially at the cost of fluency by e.g.
increasing the temperature.
It's not immediately obvious to me that the proposed method is not just a fancy way of doing the same tradeoff, rather than "pushing the Pareto boundary" in some sense.
While the current experimental results are fine, in my opinion this paper would be substantially stronger if the authors showed results on e.g., something like a creative problem solving task where the additional creativity actually results in something like higher success rate or accuracy, rather than solely improving creativity for its own sake.
- Nothing serious, overall the work is creative and rigorous.
- The four tasks studied are known to be somewhat artificial.
As the authors point out, the tests to evaluate creativity in humans might not be adequate to evaluate LLMs, since the latter can be infinitely verbose at very low cost.
The authors point this out and attenuate the importance of certain TTCW metrics, yet the tasks themselves remain tasks that were created for humans, not LLMs.
- There is a strong correlation between response length and perceived creativity, both in human & LLM evals.
The work did not directly control for length of response (which seems like it would have been very easy to do...) and the examples shown in Figure 4 unfortunately show that LLM Discussion outputs are much longer.
Are the promising results therefore only reflecting the underlying signal that responses in that condition are significantly longer on average?
A more critical examination of this aspect is needed.
4) Theoretical grounding: While the motivations are clear, the paper could benefit from stronger theoretical foundations explaining why multi-agent discussion and role-playing are expected to enhance LLM creativity from a cognitive/psychological perspective.
Lacking discussion on what is known from neuroscience about the identified ROIs and whether the fact that they exhibit the highest semantic consistency is surprising or consistent with previous findings about the human brain.
[1] Antonia Karamolegkou, Mostafa Abdou, and Anders Søgaard.
Mapping Brains with Language Models: A Survey.
In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023, pages 9748–9762, Toronto, Canada.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
[2] Gabriele Merlin and Mariya Toneva.
Language models and brains align due to more than next-word prediction and word-level information.
In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 18431–18454, Miami, Florida, USA.
[3] Jiaang Li, Antonia Karamolegkou, Yova Kementchedjhieva, Mostafa Abdou, Anders S\ogaard.
Structural Similarities Between Language Models and Neural Response Measurements.
Proceedings of the 2nd NeurIPS Workshop on Symmetry and Geometry in Neural Representations, PMLR 228:346-365, 2024.
[4] Jiaang Li, Yova Kementchedjhieva, Constanza Fierro, and Anders Søgaard.
Do Vision and Language Models Share Concepts?
A Vector Space Alignment Study.
Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 12:1232–1249.
My only concern is that the much of the work is dedicated to the novel method for region of interest identification, which in itself is not an NLP contribution.
But since it is a prerequisite for the subsequent analysis, I reckon that's okay.
- Because the effectiveness of regularised training is already well known [1], I believe the main novelty of this paper is the DPO method based on plagiarism detection and counterfactual generation (Section 3.2).
However, the experiments do not clearly show whether this method outperforms simpler approaches such as GA or NPO.
- For the regularised training itself, the benefit is only marginal in the CotaEval setting, and for CBP‑500 some metrics even reverse, so the effect is unclear.
- In constructing the DPO dataset, counterfactuals are generated by the model itself.
Is there any risk that the model ignores the prompt and simply outputs the memorised text?
[1] p.6, Eq (1), “Retain” loss
- The paper claims SSU (Dou et al., 2025) is not scalable to 500 books due to "significant and impractical training time required" and thus uses CBP-50 for SSU.
This significantly weakens the direct comparison with SUV on the main CBP-500 dataset.
While understandable if truly impractical, more justification or an attempt to run SSU on a subset of CBP-500 that is larger than CBP-50 but still manageable could have provided a fairer comparison.
- The utility degradation reported for baselines like SSU and GA is described as making the model "unusable".
While the case study in Table 2 shows gibberish output, the quantitative results (e.g., CSQA scores dropping, MMLU for SSU being 0.245 on CBP-50) need more nuanced interpretation rather than a blanket "unusable" statement, especially if these methods are still performing above random chance on complex tasks.
- The claim that SUV "still significantly outperforms the baselines" in utility even with DPO-only on CBP-50 needs to be carefully presented, as the primary claim is about scalable unlearning with utility preservation, which relies on the regularization components.
- Counterfactual Generation (Section 3.2, Appendix D): The process of generating counterfactuals by prompting the model to produce alternatives in a different genre is interesting.
However, the choice of three randomly sampled genres and how this influences the quality and diversity of counterfactuals needs more exploration.
Is there a risk of generating nonsensical or irrelevant (though non-copyrighted) text?
How is the "significant divergence" from the original copyrighted content measured and ensured beyond just genre shift?
Regularization Combination (Section 3.4): The rationale for why SUV-AS (joint optimization) preserves utility better and SUV-TV (task vector merging) excels in unlearning is discussed with theoretical analysis in Appendix B.
However, the main paper could benefit from a more intuitive explanation of these differences.
Why does isolating the effects in SUV-TV lead to stronger copyright protection but potentially less utility preservation?
- Fisher Information (Section 3.3, Appendix A.2): The computation of Fisher information, especially the "Differential Fisher Importance", and its application only to LoRA adapter layers is a specific design choice.
More justification for this localized application and its impact compared to broader application would be beneficial.
- The comparison with existing benchmark datasets such as LOCOMO and LongMemEval in Section 5.1 is not clear enough.
It would be useful to provide concrete evidence to motivate this new dataset, e.g.
a comparison table as well as examples.
- The latency of the different approaches is not measured.
The efficiency benefit of external memory over inputting a full interaction history is not quantified.
The paper claims that Mem0 is more computationally expensive than RAG, but no details are provided (necessary because Mem0 incurs cost to build the external memory besides retrieval cost at test time).
## Figure 4b, not convincing emergence I would like to see a more dense sampling of the checkpoints for figure 4b.
For the score to be comparable across datasets/domains, I would expect the score to be similar early in training.
In the figure we see very different vertical offsets (for more readable vs less readable).
If a more dense sampling does not solve that, it is likely that the coherence score is biased.
--- ## Figure 5, not convincing baseline Llama-70B cannot be really compared here, since its training data is not known.
It is not clear to me how this model can be used as a baseline.
--- ## Generating and evaluating with LLMs It is a bit odd to both generate training data and evaluate the generated text from SLMs with LLMs.
This could introduce biases in the coherence and readability scores, therefore, limiting the generality of the findings.
--- I would like to see more links with previous work on learnability: (Nguyen, 2024) Understanding Transformers via N-gram Statistics (Kallini, 2024) Mission: Impossible language models
(1) One thing that's always difficult when discussing metrics like coherence is the exact definition and how does that differ from fluency and clarity that the authors also mention.
I think a more clear definition of this could help.
One thing that could've affected results is response length.
Do models that generate longer responses are judged as more coherent?
Should we control for that?
Here's some reference that discusses the many different definition issue
I have a few suggestions which I think are minor revisions, listed under the next question.
I think this paper does not exhibit any obvious flaws.
(1) One major contribution of this paper is the collection of a new benchmark, WIKIMIA-2024, which, however, is almost identical to the benchmark WIKIMIA-24 released in [1].
Both benchmarks are based on WIKIMIA but adapted to up-to-date LLMs by setting a new cut-off date.
The paper should discuss in detail the essential differences between these two benchmarks, if they exist.
Additionally, evaluating the proposed method and baselines on WIKIMIA-24 is also necessary.
(2) What is the meaning of edit distance (Line 210)?
Why should we ensure a sufficient distance between the member and non-member?
The necessity of this operation is not justified.
(3) The related works/preliminaries can benefit from a thorough revision, especially since the discussion of MIAs and Memorization is not comprehensive and up-to-date enough.
Please include a detailed discussion of more up-to-date works [1-5].
(4) As established by Carlini et al.
[6], membership inference attacks should be evaluated by computing their true-positive rate at low (e.g., ≤ 0.1%) false-positive rates, rather than using average-case metrics like AUC.
I suggest using two metrics: the Full Log-scale Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) Curve to highlight low false-positive rates, and the TPR at a low FPR, which measures attack performance at specific FPRs (e.g., 0.1%, 0.01%).
"MIA-Tuner: Adapting Large Language Models as Pre-training Text Detector." arXiv e-prints (2024): arXiv-2408.
“Memorization through the Lens of Curvature of Loss Function around Samples.” Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning, PMLR, 2024.
[3] Ravikumar, Deepak, et al.
“Unveiling Privacy, Memorization, and Input Curvature Links.” Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning, PMLR, 2024.
[4] Zhang, Jingyang, et al.
Min-K%++: Improved Baseline for Detecting Pre-Training Data from Large Language Models.
arXiv:2404.02936, arXiv, 23 May 2024.
"Membership Inference Attacks against Fine-tuned Large Language Models via Self-prompt Calibration." The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems.
[6] Carlini, Nicholas, et al.
"Membership inference attacks from first principles." 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (2022).
[7] Bertran, Martin, et al.
"Scalable membership inference attacks via quantile regression." Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (2023).
"Canary in a Coalmine: Better Membership Inference with Ensembled Adversarial Queries." International Conference on L
Membership inference is a problem that potentially has important ramifications: for example, a prosecutor may use this to decide whether to sue LLM providers for copyright infringement.
Because of this, I think there needs to be more rigorous and nuanced discussion of results (beyond simply stating that the method is "effective.").
That said, I gave some suggestions (see "Summary") and I think it is not too hard to address them in the revisions.
While it nice that this work presents extensive results on many state-of-the-art models, this is at the same time one of the weaknesses of this work.
The use of proprietary models makes it impossible to conduct in-depth analysis which could have been also very insightful (e.g., some attribution analysis to see which parts of the discussion contributed to the final vote).
Finally, some details about the conducted experiments is missing which impacts reproducibility (see questions).
The selection of specific tasks on which the approach is tested may be critical, and it is not discussed.
In fact, the definition of the tasks themselves is only found in the appendix.
For one thing, different tasks call for different evaluation metrics.
While accuracy is technically fit for any classification task, it may not be the best way to describe the performance, e.g.
in the case of unbalanced label distribution.
Generative models are also known to be sensitive to how they are prompted.
Given the vast difference from one task to another, there need to be a strategy to minimize the dependance of the results from the variations in prompting.
There's no inference speedup evaluation.
The technique contribution is insufficient, as I believe the only contribution is that normalization can help gain good performance for VQ and pruning.
Lack of ablation comparisons of proposed methods w/ and w/o column(row) normalization.
Comparisons with more advanced pruning approaches could help validate its SOTA performance, e.g., [SparseGPT]( [
**The results are a bit mixed**.
For quantization, NoWag clearly outperforms QUIP#, but is comparable to AQLM.
For pruning, NoWag clearly outperforms Wanda for the 50% setting, but is comparable for the 2:4 and 4:8 settings.
Inspired by the first step, I would suggest to include more VQ and Pruning baselines to show the benifit of NoWag.
For example, VQ baselines could be GPTVQ [1] and ClusComp [2].
[2] seems a concurrent work, but a related discussion is also benificial.
Pruning baselins could be DARE[3] and SLERP[4].
Please check my summary above.
I think there are mainly two reasons: 1.
The theory does not seem to be general.
And the paper did not provide a nice characterization of when this theory holds.
If the theory holds, it is not clear to me that the method provided in the paper is the optimal one.
I think there are many classical methods can do well, and more comparisons are needed.
In order to confirm the paper’s findings, additional experiments should be conducted to cover more diverse search spaces.
Because the conference focuses on language modeling, extensive evaluations with recent language models of various sizes and types would be more appreciated.
The paper investigates only random search and claims that the proposed model can be used to build tools for analysis.
However, because the analysis is limited to random search, other common HPO methods (e.g., Bayesian optimization, BOHB [1]) cannot benefit from it.
[1] Falkner, Stefan, Aaron Klein, and Frank Hutter.
"BOHB: Robust and efficient hyperparameter optimization at scale." International conference on machine learning.
- I would have appreciated more analysis on that justify certain decisions on the creation of the dataset.
For example, in the ODSum-Story dataset construction, the authors give a good rational for decontextualizing queries, as the queries in the original dataset are too dependent on the source document.
However, it would be interesting to see that this step actually makes a difference in terms of downstream performance.
Do the models perform better when these decontextualized queries are provided?
- While there is a fair attempt made to provide some data on the data quality through data annotation, 40 random examples may not be representative of the quality of the entirety of the dataset which is order of magnitudes larger.
* The paper describes still exploratory, non-conclusive, work * More technical details could be given about the LLM-based workflow preparation+ execution.
For instance, they mention using two reasoning models, but not how they are combined.
* I miss a reference to the degree of competence of the involved law students.
It can make a huge difference if they are undergraduate, master students, or PhD students.
I also miss the number of students involved in the dataset preparation.
* The study grounds on workflows for "operating agreement" preparation.
I miss a discussion on how to generalise it to other type of legal activities.
There is no strong reasons, except some suggestions to improve the writing.
It is also possible that after all these philosophically inspired theoretical jargon and framework to look at LLMs, there is little practical value and impact in terms of how users will interact with the LLMs - i.e., it largely remains a theoretical construct that has no practical significance.
The proposed approach is tailored to PHP WebShells with critical function taxonomies and behavior-specific profiling.
It is unclear how generalizable BFAD would be to other malware formats (e.g., JavaScript web shells, binary exploits) .
Is this an approach that only work for the specific setting set on the paper, or is there a way to quantify its generalization capabilities ?
The paper reports quantitative metrics but lacks an in-depth analysis of failure cases, such as why certain benign files are misclassified or why small models hallucinate.
Understanding these failure modes is essential for practical deployment in security-sensitive applications.
Webshell in general are known for obfuscation and evasive tactics, that is where its main threat resides.
In paper , we have a bit of an idealized scenario, which is understandable as at the end it needs to be framed as a ML problem.
Ideally, the paper should have evaluated adversarial robustness (e.g., obfuscated or zero-day shells).
This observed trade-off is repeatedly mentioned but remains unexplained beyond surface-level speculation (e.g., prompt sensitivity, model capacity).
- The description of experiments are not clear and hard to follow.
A few clarifications and additions would be helpful: * When a new model is to be evaluated, does the entire optimization problem have to be re-run or is there a more efficient approximation that can be done?
* How stable are the obtained model embeddings?
When adding a new model or several models for example, how different will the results be?
* The comparison is done only with one previous work that relies on scaling laws.
Comparing to another performance prediction technique, e.g.
from the model routing works, would help highlight the importance of the model lineage information and could increase the impact of the paper.
The paper demonstrates incorporating lineage, it doesn't extensively analyze the sensitivity of its LRMF model to varying degrees of noise or incompleteness in this foundational lineage data.
A critical aspect would be understanding at what threshold of data inaccuracy the benefits of lineage regularization begin to diminish or even become detrimental.
Furthermore, over smaller subsets of data this effect might be more pronounced.
For both homogeneous and heterogeneous cases how does one decide to use model lineage averaging or Lineage-Regularized Matrix Factorization?
The paper does not discuss in depth about the failure nodes and provide insights into the emperical analysis.
Further, the paper still needs to shed light on the poor performance of GPQA
In the current framework, the top k relevant information entries will be edited for update.
For a query which is relevant to n information entries and n >> k, a practical issue raises that there are (n - k) old entries that are yet to update and these old information can dominate the search results and affect the accuracy of the final RAG outcome.
This work could discuss such an issue for comprehensive.
While the proposed method is shown effective on the two Llama models, it is less useful on the Qwen 2.5 7B model reported in Appendix H.
More models could be included in experiments for comparison.
The study lacks experiments with larger-scale models (e.g., 14B or 32B), which would significantly strengthen the generalizability and practical relevance of the results.
I don't think this paper has critical weaknesses, but a few things that could be improved: 1.
Compared to pretraining, the finetuning analysis feels a bit rushed, with only the original and final checkpoints before and after finetuning.
As finetuning is much lighter than pretraining, the authors may be able to conduct custom finetuning to even strengthen the paper's analysis.
The authors should do an ablation study on the quality of the data generation compared to directly prompting GPT-4o to generate problems on a given theme according to the common core description.
It is unclear if we actually need all the complexity in the current data generation pipeline.
The figures should be made in vector graphics.
Right now, many plots are pixelated when zoomed in.
Also, I don't recommend the use of bold font in plot as they are too distractive on the normal flow of reading.
For any benchmark dataset human evaluation is necessary to check the quality of the dataset.
Even though there is automatic checking of the dataset but it would have been helpful if there is also a human evaluation.
The dataset contains numbers whose addition will lead 20.
This could have been extended for the curation of a richer dataset.
I would have really liked to see the performance of LLMs according to digits.
Do they perform better where addition results in a single digit number like (1+5) compared to two digits (8+9).
How is the effect of few-shot prompting in these cases?
Would that have been helpful?
A short survey on how humans actually solve this problem would also have made the paper stronger specifically for the follow-up questions.
1) I don't understand why this apporach can really solve contamination problem.
It is possible that the user-document is contaminated as well if it has been used in the pretraining.
2) I also don't understand why this approach can workaround saturation.
Instead, if my understanding is correct, the question difficulty highly depends the on the source document the the capacity of LLM generating evaluation samples.
So it is actually easy to saturate in my opinion.
Although YourBench seems have some weakness, I still believe that the flexibility is important for general-purpose evaluation.
Preparing documents are always easier than preparing QA pairs for user.
So I tend to accept this work as a good research on LLM eval.
The configuration used in Table 1 employs 50 plans × 7 turns × 4 TextGrad steps, which can consume substantial resources per harmful behavior.
The paper does not provide a cost analysis of this.
It appears that ActorAttack [1] proposes a similar two‑phase method: (1) generating attack clues and (2) actively evaluating the conversation and adjusting as needed.
A more detailed comparison with ActorAttack is required.
Because XGuard‑Train is produced by X‑Teaming, aligned models may inherit artifacts specific to that framework.
In Table 4, the ASR of fine‑tuning with XGuard against X‑Teaming is low, but against ActorAttack it is higher than that of +SafeMT (although this is expected, since SafeMT is generated by ActorAttack).
Still, it is difficult to determine the cross‑framework generalization of XGuard.
"Derail Yourself: Multi-turn LLM Jailbreak Attack through Self-discovered Clues." arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10700 (2024).
These papers are not mentioned or analyzed enough in the paper.
A more thorough comparative analysis on related work should be added to strengthen the paper's positioning within the current research landscape and better highlight its contributions.
Also, this should be mentioned in the early part of the paper such as in the introduction.
- explanations and interpretation of results are a bit meager in some places, though the numbers in general seem to show the right trends - reliance on GPT-4o-mini for the main technique (though this is mitigated by Section 4.3)
* The ablation study showed that all steps are important.
But, an important angle to look at is the knowledge levels' impact and how much data we really need to generate.
Do we need all these four levels?
Instead of generating a detailed chapter, can a sentence or expanded keyword list for the bullet points do the work?
The method is really interesting, but such insights can save computational costs and help with the interpretability as well.
* A qualitative analysis to compare a handful of samples from a human-developed forget sets and the proposed synthetic data would be helpful to identify the gaps.
Minor ------ * In Table 1 caption, explain what is the 'General Cap' column, or just right 'General Capability' as the column header; and how is it computed.
At a first glance it is confusing.
Also add a 'lower is better' symbol to be consistant with other columns.
- The proposed method is not so exciting, i.e., just creating prompting and its application (pipeline).
- It is unclear in the paper if the data samples are synthesized by target model itself, e.g., Does a Mistral model create unlearning datasets and the same model is used as target for unlearning?
- The study does not investigate if the synthesized data is reliable or not.
For example, do the synthesized datasets contain hallucination?
Do the synthesized datasets similar to the ground truth datasets?
(e.g., semantic similarity analysis with Bert) - A representative baseline unlearning methods: Gradient Ascent ( is not included in the experiment.
Perhaps Negative Preference Optimization ( is also a major approach.
- The work does not propose original ideas, but a simple combination and (well-done !) adaptation of known ideas.
More generally, because the main claim is to reduce the human effort, some section about costs estimation would be welcome.
- It is clear that the proposed pipeline improves the tradeoff between unlearning and retaining general capabilities as compared to the baselines.
It is no clear however, but this is a general comment that addresses many works beyond this one in the unlearning field, whether this tradeoff has become good enough to be really useful in practice.
- Larger open source LLMs could have been used to generate the forget set.
A potential limitation is that the process reward relies entirely on a single strong model (Gemini 1.5 Pro Thinking) for scoring.
Although this model is strong enough to support the current experiments, it narrows the conclusion.
In broader task settings, particularly those involving harder problems or less generalizable reward models, the accuracy of process evaluation might not be reliable, potentially compromising RL optimization.
As a result, the stability of the SWiRL method still largely depends on the quality and selection of the reward model, and the conclusion may not be stable for other tasks or reward models.
In addition, the current tool selection is still relatively over-simplistic, which may make the reward estimation easier.
For example, if multiple search tools were involved, evaluating the process reward would become more challenging as it needs to check which searching tools are appropriate for this certainty question.
* This work appears somewhat incremental and engineering-oriented.
The authors integrate several existing techniques—multi-step reinforcement learning, data synthesis with rejection sampling, and the use of LLMs as process reward models—and apply them to the task of tool use.
* The experimental evaluation is limited to a single student-teacher model pair, which weakens the generalizability of the conclusions and findings.
* While using the sociolinguistic attributes seems like a reasonable choice, and provide some interpretability, I would have liked to see more investigation / comparison to models that use latent factor optimization for preference modeling.
* An additional baseline is one where the model can reason about the particular attributes, rather than being given a fixed set (aka chain-of-thought).
It would be an interesting comparison, to better understand how optimal are the current attributes.
It's not clear if the results would extend beyond Reddit, at least without more work on the attributes: - limited experiments with a focus on a single dataset, in the artificial world of Reddit.
- attribute selection: it's not clear how the dimensions were picked not if they would apply in different settings.
- reliance on synthetic data: it's not clear how the counterfactual data are able to capture the needed nuances.
- resistance to shift: there is some robustness but how much?
As mentioned above, the experiment is very limited.
- Key mathematical notation in §3.1 is ambiguous (e.g., inconsistent use of T, N, X_0^{(l)}, X_T^{(l)}), making it difficult to reproduce results or even compute the proposed metrics correctly.
- $T$ is introduced as raw text, yet in Eq.
(1) it denotes a sequence of tokens.
This usage is inconsistent with $I$, which represents a raw image fed to the VLM through the function $f$.
- $N$ is never defined (I presume it is the number of layers in $g_\pi$).
- $X_{0}^{(l)}$ is labeled “encoded visual representation,” but the 0-th token is merely the first image token—it does not capture the full visual representation.
The authors may have meant $X_{|f(V)|}^{(l)}$ (the last image token).
- $X_{T}^{(l)}$ is called the “multimodal representation,” yet $T$ is not an index but the text itself.
Even if one sets $T = |T|$, the notation still seems off; perhaps $X_{|f(V)|+|T|}^{(l)}$ (the last input token) was intended.
- Because these symbols form the foundation of the method—and are reused in the proposed information-theoretic measurements—the notation must be clarified.
In my review, I assumed $X_{0}^{(l)}$ refers to the last image token and $X_{T}^{(l)}$ to the last input token.
- Core empirical claims rely solely on the shapes of two mutual‑information curves; without causal interventions or ablation studies, the four‑stage interpretation remains speculative.
- For example, the authors identify four stages of multimodal encoding solely from the shapes of the proposed metric curves.
However, it is difficult—at least for me—to draw firm conclusions from these plots alone.
They indicate when information from image tokens is injected into text tokens, but not how this integration occurs.
We can certainly hypothesize, but for such hypotheses to be scientifically convincing we need more rigorous experiments—for instance, interventions on the model’s hidden states—to corroborate the claims.
- Evaluation is limited to a single model (LLaVA‑1.5‑7B) and a concept bottleneck tied to 80 MS‑COCO classes, leaving generality to other architectures and tasks untested.
- The experiments lack comparisons to simpler diagnostic tools (e.g., similarity of hidden states between image tokens and text tokens [1]), so the incremental benefit of the proposed toolkit is unclear.
- The method is built upon previous work [1], which impacts the technical contributions to some degree.
- Some research questions may be too vague and difficult to answer.
Though the paper uses the proposed framework to reach some conclusions, it may still be hard to answer the proposed questions.
A suggestion would be modifying the questions into some smaller questions, instead of in the current form.
- The used model is LLaVA1.5, which is old and may not be powerful enough.
The authors should consider using more advanced MLLMs such as Qwen-VL.
The evaluation is conducted on benchmarks that may be too simple.
Please also consider more advanced benchmarks such as MM-Vet 2.
It would be great for audience to understand if the author can provide more detailed proof of Lemma 3.3 and 3.4 2.
In Experiments part, the author only test with LLaVA 1.5, it would be more convincing to include other MLLMs, such as Qwen-2.5-VL, LLaMA3-V, etc.
The 4 stage observed in LLaVA may not exist in other MLLMs 4.
In Finding 3, caption can also be regarded as one type of QA, please clarify the experiment setting here.
In Finding 4 and 5, conclusions are drawn from comparing QA task with caption task, however, caption task benchmark is COCO-Cap, the concept encoder is also trained with MS-COCO, there may exists potential distribution shift, more detailed analysis or change caption evaluation with other benchmarks may be helpful.
In Line 288, the author mentioned "a stable F_v in Figure 1b", please clarify while line refer to?
In Line 295, the experiment setting is "original POPE queries with visual prompted images", however in later sentence "Only visual prompt", which is confusing.
In Finding 9, textual reference to image can enhance visual information injection substantially, however, this might related to LLaVA instruction following training data is formated.
It remains unclear whether the proposed framework can be easily generalized across different architectures and tasks within multimodal systems.
Ideally, it would be nice to see this study across two broad categories of MLLMs, i.e.
unified embeddings ones like LLAVA and cross modality attention ones like NVLM from NVIDIA.
It would be interesting to see if inference/findings are consistent across different vision embedding models like CLIP, ImageBind, other unified embedding models.
Need some discussion on how the findings can help us to design better multimodal architecture or training mechanism in future.
Two main concerns: 1) The authors start with assumption that existing preference datasets have bias towards brevity.
In my experience it is quite the opposite - the longer response is often preferred by humans and, especially by models from GPT-4 family.
This has been extensively shown in the literature as well: (Figure 7) and (Figure 2).
This is especially true for UltraFeedback dataset which is used in this work.
In that data, longer responses are typically preferred.
Authors claim that they get SOTA.
But from “Iterative Length-Regularized Direct Preference Optimization: A Case Study on Improving 7B Language Models to GPT-4 Level” is based on Mistral-7B and has 50.5% - 50.3% on AlpacaEval 2 (Community) and has even higher scores
- The proposed methodology is incremental, primarily combining and refining techniques from existing approaches like SWEPO and SimPO.
- There is no formal proof in the theoretical foundation of URSLA, and it is mainly built with conjectures based on some empirical observations.
It's unclear if the findings are universally valid.
My main reason for rejection concerns the lack of details on the many variants of the proposed methods, all presented in the bottom block of rows in Table 2.
It's critical information and I couldn't find relevant information despite multiple readthroughs.
For instance, what is "dyamic", "1-vs-k", and how do you combine REFA with "InfoNCA"?
For this reason, I'm giving a below-acceptance assessment, although I do believe with proper explanations it should merit a higher score.
I don't have any reason to reject.
The authors setup has been standard to compare offline methods such as this.
Nonetheless I believe there are improvements to be made to make the setup more robust.
1) What were the hyper parameters used on each method?
Results for these methods are highly sensible to hyper-parameters and the authors acknowledge that but then don't show what they used or what they tried 2) The setup only uses preferences taken from other models (off-policy) but how does their method compare to other methods when data is on-policy?
For this I would recommend a different setup where all samples are taken from the SFT model and then ranked according to an open reward model like ArmoRM or Skywork.
3) How does it compare to WPO?
WPO is a recent PO method where they actually weight each sample according to the models policy and it seems to achieve also great results in "length-controlled".
This is more for my curiosity because I think authors used enough methods.
Its questionable that using "pairwise" logistic loss (Eq.10) lead to calibrated scores 2.
Some experiment settings are not clear from the main text.
See detailed questions below.
Missing proper evaluation metrics (i.e., Macro-average Precision/Recall/F1) for tail-labels performance
The readability of the paper is not strong, and the formatting is uncomfortable.
For example, the abstract should generally be a single paragraph, there are too many blank spaces before and after Section 2 Related Work, and the spacing of equations is large.
With ample space in the appendix, the full text does not fill up the nine pages.
Improvements are needed in basic writing formatting and readability.
The paper has limited novelty.
From a personal perspective, the innovation lies in using a teacher model to predict probabilities.
The rest of the paper mainly demonstrates the significant impact of tail classes.
From the perspective of innovative design, it is not convincing.
It is also unclear why the teacher model can provide accurate estimates of $p_x$.
There is limited description regarding fair comparisons.
After introducing the teacher model, the training process and time will be affected.
The main part should devote more space to introducing the teacher model, analyzing its performance, and comparing the training time with other models.
The datasets used in the experiment is too small.
In the results presented in Table 2, why there is a discrepancy compared to those from the original DosCond paper?
Could the authors clarify why the authors deviated from the settings employed in the DosCond paper?
It would be beneficial if the authors could delve deeper into the sensitivity of their approach with respect to distillation parameters \theta_1 and \theta_2.
Undertaking further experiments to report the performance across varied distillation parameters might offer greater insights, given that these parameters significantly influence the size of the distilled dataset.
On the ogbg-molhiv dataset, could the authors provide an explanation for the better performance observed achieved by distilled data compared to the original dataset.
As we are removing the nodes that exist in the less-occurring computational trees, how can we be sure that we are not losing important information in the dataset (especially since this process does not consider the feature information)?
Can authors justify it theoretically or/and empirically by running some experiments?
Unlike DOSCOND and KIDD, MIRAGE seems infeasible to be generalized to node classification tasks.
There is no theoretical analysis nor experimental proof to investigate the error when approximating the true graph representation by aggregating the root representations of only the highly frequent trees.
MIRAGE compresses the computation trees by mining the set of frequently co-occurring items.
However, we can consider an extreme situation in which two computation trees are co-occurring in all graphs, but their frequencies in each graph are very low.
So, these trees can’t approximate the true graph representation, which will destroy the synthetic dataset performance.
The synthetic dataset can solely be used to train GNNs based on the message-passing framework, but can’t used to train certain spectral GNNs, such as ChebyNet with multiple propagation steps.
I have very little concerns about this paper.
It is however unfortunate that the evaluation framework did not consider faithfulness.
This could have been done by asking annotators to assess each fact and search for it inside the book to verify its factuality.
One point I miss in the experiments is a baseline without hierarchical merging or incremental updating.
The reason is that a significant fraction of books have length around 100k tokens or less (if we observe the statistics of BookSum, for instance), and it would be interesting to see if the hierarchical merging or incremental updating introduce (or not) a high quantity of coherence issues compared to a vanilla LLM approach.
Even with some level of truncation, it should still be possible to assess coherence issues.
Minor issue: you mention in section 3 that "we did not find summaries online for any books in our dataset, which means LLM memorization of these summaries is impossible." Not finding results online by no means imply that memorization is impossible.
In fact, we have no guarantee that closed-source models such as GPT-4 are trained just on publicly available data.
Defining the discriminative power of potential function by WL test appears to be a somewhat contrived setup, whereby the problem still boils down to graph isomorphism.
I am not sure how practically relevant this setting is, and whether it is truly “fundamentally different” with works on WL tests.
A more comprehensive discussion about the connection may mitigate the issue.
Following the above point, the analysis does not take into account node features, whereas in many PGMs node and clique potentials are functions on node features.
This further stresses the point that the setup might deviate from practice.
The proposed method seems not scalable as it requires identifying maximum cliques that is exponentially complex, and even relaxing it to cliques with size k has super-quadratic complexity O(n^k) (please correct me if I am wrong).
This limitation has not been discussed in the paper, and experiments only include small datasets.
The experimental results are relatively weak.
on PPI, best performance in most cases (4 out of 6 columns in the table) is achieved by GCNII+SPN.
Improvement on synthetic dataset is also limited, and Planetoid dataset is outdated.
Baselines are also limited.
Particularly, many GNN variants are considered in the analysis but are not compared in experiments, and I wonder why?
Moreover, the proposed methods are essentially based on data augmentation, but competitors in this category are missing.
Typos: invalid reference in appendix A and E.2; “a successful ?
for minimizing” in 3.2; repeated references Bergen et al.
* Experiments on large link prediction datasets are lacked.
* While the theoretical analysis has included a lot of GNN methods, the experiments don't include them all.
* Experiments on various node classification datasets(including homogeneous and heterogeneous graphs) are lacked.
* Improvements of better GNNs(like GCNII) in node classification is limited.
* Experiments details are lacked, like how to choose hyperparameters.
The first paragraph is problematic.
“implicitly assume that node representations learnt by GNNs are independent conditioned on node features and edges, thereby ignoring the joint dependency among nodes...” does not represent the related works accurately.
These works do not ignore dependency among the nodes, which is captured via multiple rounds of message passing similar to loopy belief propagation.
I find the first paragraph could be phrased in a different way to make the distinctions accurate.
The introduction of phantom nodes and edges is not a novel development and closely resembles the other methods like CIN.
However, the problem of inefficiency remains in such methods i.e.
the computational complexity of finding maximal cliques which can be used for phantom nodes to guarantee the inferential capacity.
Certain related works are missing in the paper.
Recent works on Factor Graph Neural Networks (FGNN) [1] are highly related works in establishing connections between PGMs and GNNs.
A small discussion on the relevance would be pertinent.
The experimental section could be more elaborate to study the effectiveness of GNNs in learning higher-order distributions.
For example, comparison with Zhen et al.
(2023) on inference of higher-order LDPC codes.
**Overall,** I find the paper making a good contribution to the understanding of the GNN's expressivity in a new perspective from the lens of Probabilistic graphical models.
Although, I haven't carefully checked all the proofs, the results are mostly not surprising.
**References:** [1] Zhen Zhang, Mohammed Haroon Dupty, Fan Wu, Javen Qinfeng Shi, Wee Sun Lee.
"Factor Graph Neural Networks" Journal of machine Learning research 24(181):1−54, 2023
- Do you have any ideas for the graph classification tasks?
Generally, the papers about the expressiveness power of GNNs use graph classification tasks to demonstrate the effectiveness of their methods.
- Could you apply your methods on large-scale graphs?
While the results are compelling - I find the exposition of the novel phantom node/edge methodology lacking.
While proofs are given on their approximation power, and one can assume motivation from framed previous works, the paper would be strengthened with the motivation driving the methodology.
Further, after the long theoretical exposition, the analysis of the proposed method is brief, and restricted mainly to results.
A longer discussion of the modified properties (and potential limitations) of the graph would allow more informed adoption.
This paper directly extends distillation strategies on decoding-based watermarking and then poses the limitation of weight-based watermarking.
However, no solution is provided.
It seems like an experimental report, and it would be better to introduce the specific solution.
The motivation of this paper is there is a limitation of decoding-based watermarking, namely, replacing it with a normal decoder.
Is the assumption practical?
In practice, for an LLM API, how do we conduct such an operation?
For wright-based LLM watermarking, more attacks (besides fine-tuning) shall be considered, such as pruning and further distillation.
The paper exceeds 9 pages.
The experimental methodology could be strengthened by 1.
controlling for model architecture (use the Llama-2 as the student model for both logits-based and sample-based experiments for a more intuitive comparison of the results)).
This would better isolate the distillation techniques themselves.
increasing the dataset diversity (currently, only one dataset is used).
somehow, seq-rep-3 is not evaluated on the sample-based distillation.
The technical writing is condensed in some areas, making it harder to follow for non-experts.
Expanding explanations around key concepts like the distillation objectives could improve readability.
The related work could be expanded to provide a broader context.
Watermarking has been studied for other modalities like images, which could give a useful perspective.
Meanwhile, model-specific watermark leveraging the learnability of distribution difference has also been discussed in the literature [He, Xuanli, et al.
The spoofing attack evaluation is limited to a simple harmful/innocuous categorization.
More nuanced human evaluations could better characterize risks.
The limitations around fine-tuning robustness are acknowledged but not thoroughly investigated.
Exploring techniques to improve robustness could be valuable.
"Cater: Intellectual property protection on text generation apis via conditional watermarks." Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 35 (2022): 5431-5445.
**Contribution to Open Model Watermarking**.
As the authors show, open-model watermarking using distillation is not robust against fine-tuning.
I am unclear about the contribution of the authors to open model watermarking.
No prior work has used distillation to watermark LMs, hence there is no security threat.
What is the use of a watermark that (i) lacks robustness and (ii) can be spoofed by design?
I would love to hear the author's thoughts on this.
**Limited novelty.** One would expect that watermarking can be spoofed if the attacker can access sufficiently many watermarked samples.
If I understood correctly, the authors use **163 million tokens** ($640$k samples times 256 tokens each) of watermarked text with the _same_ message.
How realistic is this assumption?
Is the attack effective when a provider uses a different message after generating a set number of tokens?
Spoofing is possible when sufficiently many samples are revealed.
I believe a more interesting approach is to measure the number of samples that enable spoofing or to derive a theoretical bound for the spoofer's sample efficiency.
Insights into that question could guide the party that injects the watermark into deploying defenses, such as switching to a different key or message after this number of samples has been revealed.
Unfortunately, the paper does not investigate this problem.
Do the authors have any insights into that problem?
I'm confused about this sentence, 'Hence, our ultimate objective is to define a generative model', in Section 2.1.
Throughout the whole paper, DyGNNExplainer is a representational model.
Equation 1 should be described in detail.
I guess this equation is derived from it, but I can't see the logical derivation.
This paper still has not well addressed the interpretability issue of DyGNNs.
The authors only provide evidence in performance improvements and static interpretability ('house' motif in BA-Shapes).
We can not observe specific causal relationships in dynamic graphs from provided results.
Besides, the baselines are interpretability methods conducted on static graphs, and the datasets are not classic dynamic graph datasets, such as traffic and citation network datasets.
Thus, this proposed solution does not satisfy the expectation that exploring the interpretability of dynamic graph.
Some important literature is missing, e.g., CauSTG for capturing invariant relations targets temporal shifts in ST graphs [1] and CaST for discovering via Structural Causal Model (SCM) with back-door and front-door adjustment [2].
The authors should distinguish the distinctions between the proposed DyGNNExplainer and (CauSTG, CaST), especially the CaST.
[1] Xia Y, Liang Y, Wen H, et, al.
Deciphering Spatio-Temporal Graph Forecasting: A Causal Lens and Treatment[J].
arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.13378, 2023.
[2] Zhou Z, Huang Q, Yang K, et, al.
Maintaining the Status Quo: Capturing Invariant Relations for OOD Spatiotemporal Learning.
In Proceedings of the 29th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD '23), 3603–3614.
Minors: In Figure 1, the text is too small.
The presentation can be improved.
It is hard for me to follow the paper well.
For example, in the Introduction section, it is hard to straightforwardly understand the spatial interpretability and temporal interpretability.
Illustrations can help readers understand better.
Besides, it is not easy for me to understand the challenges for implementing the SCM (third paragraph in the Intro).
Correspondingly, I didn’t see how the proposed approach addresses the challenges in the fourth paragraph.
The significance of the proposed approach is not clear.
It is hard to judge the performance improvement achieved by DyGNNExplainer since other baselines are all for static graphs.
The paper presents an appealing goal, providing generalized Hamiltonian representations consistent across different physical domains.
However, given the presented quantitative and qualitative results it is hard to judge the actual generalization and performance of the framework as detailed in the following points: 1.
The notion of $\textit{generalization}$: ideally when discussing generalization in DL we would like to obtain a single pre-trained model which can then be used for diverse applications.
With respect to the presented framework, this would suggest training the model(s) on a single task and then using the same network for prediction on all held-out systems.
Similar to the setting presented in Ricci et al.
However, here presented results always consider a single held-out-system.
Providing an ablation over the number of systems used for training will allow for strengthening the claim of generalization and applicability for real-world applications.
Baselines: it would be beneficial to extend the baselines presented in the paper in two directions: (i) optimal; Training over the tested task, using all regimes (meta-, pre-, and vanilla HNN).
This will allow a better assessment of the quality of the generalized model and (ii) within system generalization; following the background presented in section 2 it will be valuable to add a comparison to frameworks that are similar in nature and allow $\textit{within}$ model generalization, e.g.
2022) or within the same functional form of the Hamiltonian, e.g.
Here training over the same train-test splits.
The limitation of meta-learning for (Hamiltonian) dynamics is not clearly investigated.
This makes it difficult to assess the range where the claims made in the paper should be valid.
In other words, the claims are rather weak because their applicability seems unbounded with the current set of experiments.
When the meta-learning approaches for dynamics may not be beneficial?
For example, what happens if you meta-train a model only with conservative systems and try to adapt it to a dissipative system?
Such experiments to investigate the limitations of the empirical findings would strengthen the paper.
The paper only reports the performance of a well-known method (MAML) merely applied to a particular setting.
This could certainly be a kind of contribution in which ICLR audience may be interested, but I think that in such a paper, with a purely experimental point of view, the claims should be made more carefully.
Specifically, as stated above, the cases where meta-learning is not necessarily beneficial should also be revealed, with which the claims would become more falsifiable and convincing.
The evaluation can be strengthened by considering comparing the proposed methods with other Few-shot Learning and Physics-informed Neural Networks methods for system domain generalization under both "consistent" and "different" physical laws.
The evaluation in this paper is limited and leaves some important questions unanswered: - The main evaluation is done in terms of AlpacaEval and MT-Bench alone.
Since these are relatively small evaluation sets and it has been shown that GPT-4 evaluation can be biased (Wang et al., 2023; one wonders if the data selection does better than random only because it is aligned with those biases.
Including further evaluation, possibly on targeted benchmarks covering abilities like reading comprehension, complex reasoning etc.
- Related to the above point, since human evaluation was done on only 100 instances, it would be helpful to quantify the reliability of this assessment, e.g.: using inter-annotator agreement scores and significance, and perform a larger scale evaluation if needed.
The procedure used for quantifying complexity and quality can be validated and possibly improved further - Section 2.3 states that ChatGPT is shown multiple samples evolved from the same seed example are shown to ChatGPT at a time for scoring their complexity (and this is possibly true for quality as well).
Are these scores comparable across evalved sets from different seed examples?
This is necessary because all these data points are used together as training data for training the Llama-based scorer.
If they are not comparable, it might help to randomize the sets shown to ChatGPT for scoring.
- Relatedly, it would help to have humans also score data points in terms of complexity and quality and see if the scores correlate with ChatGPT's judgments.
Limited evaluation - No evaluation result on benchmarks like MMLU and Big-Bench-Hard, which allows verification of commonsense knowledge and reasoning with ground-truth answers.
GPT4-based evaluation often includes errors or bias, so not enough.
- Marginal performance improvement.
In Table 3, DEITA is worse than Vicuna-13B on AlpacaEval dataset.
Also, In Table 4 with human evaluation, Vicuna performs almost similar to DEITA.
- Limited baselines; recent instruction selection works including LIMA and Alpagasus are missing in the evaluation.
Although the paper demonstrates significant improvements in image quality and efficiency, its testing is concentrated on specific datasets.
A more comprehensive comparative analysis with current state-of-the-art methods would elucidate the advancements BOSS provides, especially in efficiency and quality.
Additionally, while the paper addresses low-resource scenarios, it lacks a clear comparison of resource requirements such as memory usage, power consumption, or processing time, essential for evaluating BOSS's practicality for users with limited computational resources.
Furthermore, despite the method's enhancements over existing approaches, the computational intensity of the dynamic programming algorithm and the network retraining requirement could limit its utility in resource-constrained settings.
The scalability of BOSS, with respect to increasing dataset sizes or complexity, is also not addressed, and an evaluation of this aspect would greatly benefit the paper's comprehensiveness.
- The baseline is too weak, as it only compares quantitatively with the fixed-step size ODE solver euler, while it doesn't compare with adaptive step size ODE solvers such as dopri5 or rk45.
This comparison should be included in Table 1.
- The optimization needs to be conducted on a case-by-case basis.
Additionally, the use of the dynamic programming algorithm using Gorubi may result in slow performance, rendering the method impractical.
Optimization time is also not discussed in this paper.
- I'm most concerned about the definition of contamination used in this paper.
Currently, the most popular definition of contamination follows the n-gram analysis.
In real-world scenarios when training large language models, it's hardly seen to directly feed original data samples in their original ordering as shown in Figure 1.
The application of this work could be greatly limited.
- From Figure 3, it seems that the parameters for shards and permutations are sensitive and have to be carefully selected when being applied to other test sets.
- The paper only targets direct sentence appearance in the pre-training stage.
What about instruction-tuning data in the SFT stage?
The experiments do not compare the performance of the proposed tests to prior work.
I understand that this work differs from say, the work from Carlini et al.
in that this work focuses on set-level contamination, but how does aggregating instance-level statistics over a set compare?
- Although a more efficient sharded rank comparison test is proposed, the computational complexity is still considerable.
For example, testing 49 files using 1000 permutations per shard can take 12 hours for LLaMA2.
- There is no comparison with other baseline methods.
- The method relies on a strong assumption of data exchangeability, which may not hold in real-world datasets.
I have some questions about the definition of test set contamination below.
Performance on CIFAR10/100 of algorithms is lacking compared to backprop (although surprisingly much less so for CIFAR100).
This performance gap would likely increase for larger networks.
No experiments with convnets, and I haven't found a justification for that.
Since cifar10/100 performance gets much better with introducing convolutions (for backprop), it'd be interesting to look at the performance gap there.
- The experimental improvement and evaluation of PEPITA on their own offer only limited novelty.
However, together with the analysis connecting PEPITA, FA, and Forward-Forward, this paper amounts to a considerable contribution.
- The paper largely frames against other CTG methods, which use a magnitude variable lambda to control the effect of the given attribute.
However, model arithmetic does not seem to provide a more principled definition of magnitude of effect--users will still simply pick a weight, that does not necessarily have an intuitive interpretation - Similarly, it is not quite clear how or when such a method can be applied.
Two example applications are given.
- The first is toxicity which does use both the linear and union operators but only in conjunction with weights that seem to be quite hand tuned (0.9, 0.96, 0.99).
It would be useful to also see a simpler framing of this problem with model arithmetic, e.g.
simply subtracting the M_toxic instead of the union.
The question I am trying to get at here is: does toxicity require the full complexity of model arithmetic?
It seems like a fairly simple application which may simply require a subtraction, in which case the need for more complex proposed model arithmetic might not be supported here.
- While the second application, conversation, presents a more complex use-case for model arithmetic, it seems that the complex application space means that no baselines would work or be comparable here.
So this application also does not make a complete case for the full complexity of model arithmetic improving on past work.
The proposed method needs heavy human design for specific tasks.
The formulas for toxicity reduction (Table 5) and fine-grained control (Section 5.2) is not intuitive.
I wonder whether there is a principle or a theoretically-supported method to choose operators and determine their coefficients for different tasks.
If these are just empirical tries, the applicability of the proposed method may be largely degraded.
The position of this paper needs to be further considered.
In my view, the proposed method seems like a general form of existing works because the operators based on linear combinations and classifiers are not first proposed by this paper.
They have been already studied in the line of work on controlled text generation.
The current position may exaggerate the contribution and novelty of the proposed method.
The biggest weakness of this paper is the lack of a more thorough evaluation.
I think this breaks down into three categories: - **Lack of finer grained analysis of generation.** Neither a human or an LLM-backed evaluation (e.g., with GPT-4) was done, only classifier and perplexity based evaluations (where perplexity is taken under the original vanilla language model).
This means that text could be qualitatively strange in some capacity, and none of the evaluations would show it as long as the original model is not too surprised by it.
I find this somewhat worrying, as the problem with many model control techniques is the fact that they collapse onto strange parts of the distribution that are low perplexity but still wrong, e.g.
the repetition with greedy and beam search.
- **Lack of different generative scenarios.** While section 5.2 shows fine grained control over the generated topic, this is an extremely limited generation scenario where all the model has to do is speak about a specific topic.
Evaluation on controlled generation, personalized summarization or translation, coherent essay writing, or any somewhat more defined generation scenario would have made evaluation more convincing.
- **Lack of exploration of the space of possible expressions.** The authors present an extremely general method for constructing interesting distributions to sample from, but only test a handful.
It would be disappointing if it turned out that this technique is extremely brittle to the specific Language Model Arithmetic expression that is used, which would simply have transported the complexity of prompting to the complexity of finding the right arithmetic expression.
The results in the paper do not suggest this is the case, but evaluate only 4 different expressions for quality, with the rest of the results only changing the coefficient values or testing speed.
1) Experimentation seems a little weak.
It'd be great to compare with some of the work that's come out of UW/AI2 in the past couple of years like DExperts, which you cite but dont compare with, and Quark (Lu et al.
It'd also be great to compare with GeDi and a few other baselines.
That'd strengthen the experimental component.
2) On the experimentation side again, it'd be great to have a section on using human eval to evaluate a small subset of the generations to see if humans agree that it indeed is reducing toxicity or whether its an artifact or oddity of the perspective api evaluation.
3) On the experimentation side, it'd be nice to see how well these methods work for smaller models (e.g.
Although this paper is well-motivated and extensively validated, I still have the following concerns or suggestions, hoping to make the paper more clear and solid.
The experiment results are mainly obtained under the setting of severity 5.
To establish the method's generality, it is encouraged to expand the empirical results across a spectrum of scenarios, including different severity levels.
A broader array of experiments, encompassing various severity levels, would not only fortify the method's reliability but also enhance the comprehensiveness of this study.
Moreover, it would be beneficial to evaluate how the method performs in the context of test-time adaptation (TTA) under unbiased reliability conditions.
Specifically, investigating the method's effectiveness in both (i.d.d.
scenarios would render it more practical and versatile.
The paper contains extensive analysis and experiments, but some settings require further clarification.
For instance, it's not entirely clear what "Attention A-V" means in Figure 4 and how the results demonstrate the method's robustness.
In the analysis of Figure 5, claims are made about the importance of maintenance between audio and video modalities, but the contrast with clean results is not evident.
Additional clarification or supplementary results are needed to support these claims.
There are a few typos and vague statements in the paper, such as "trafﬁc noise in the audio modality" in the caption of Figure 1, "information bias" on Page 2, and inconsistent notations like "(Stat.
These should be corrected for clarity and consistency.
The authors have conducted extensive evaluations on two newly constructed benchmarks regarding the most challenged setting (severity 5 in this paper), and the results indeed verify the effectiveness of handling the cross-modal reliability bias challenge.
Even so, I think some challenging TTA settings that are orthogonal to the cross-modal reliability bias might help to improve the practicalness and impact of this work.
First, in the practical multi-modal scenarios, the severity of distribution shifts might dynamically vary.
It would make the work more practical if the authors could additionally investigate the robustness of the proposed method under the setting MIXED SEVERITIES.
Furthermore, it is also common that the corruption types continually vary in the wild, resulting in the demand for continual test-time adaption (CTTA).
The proposed approach would be more solid and universal if the proposed method could work in the MIXED DISTRIBUTION SHIFTS setting (i.e., continual TTA setting).
Some details are missing.
It is not clear how many layers of the attention module are used and repurposed during test time adaption in the proposed approach.
And how many parameters do these self-attention layers account for?
It is encouraged to supplement comparisons with the TTA baselines regarding the number of modulated parameters and the adaption time, which would make the comparisons more comprehensive.
The results of the default setting can be added to the ablation tables for clear clarification.
In the current form, the readers need to compare the main table (1,2,3) and the ablation tables for contrast.
I carefully read the paper and found two potential mathematical typos.
$\theta_{s}^{m}$ in Line 5, page 4.
The paper lacks some experimental details, such as clarifying the terms “Statical” and “Dynamic” in Table 1 and explaining the distinctions between the proposed Self-Adaptive Attention and traditional self-attention.
It is unclear what these terms mean and how they affect the performance of different methods.
The paper should provide more definitions and discussions on these terms.
Moreover, the paper should elaborate on how the Self-Adaptive Attention differs from the conventional self-attention in terms of design, implementation, and advantages.
The confidence threshold $gamma$ work as the important parameter in the confidence-aware loss.
However, the influence of the confidence threshold $\gamma$ on TTA performance is not explored, and it would be beneficial to understand its role more explicitly.
The paper could conduct more experiments and analysis to show how different values of $\gamma$ affect the accuracy and robustness of TTA.
The paper could provide provide some insights on how to choose an appropriate value of $\gamma$.
How does the attention value in Figure 4 calculated?
Some explanation is needed.
The paper should provide more details on how to compute the attention value for each modality pair in Figure 4.
An outlying problem, how does the audio information used in autonomous vehicle?
As most scenarios of autonomous vehicle might use the visual sensor and could your method used in such case?
There is a typographical error in Eq.
This is a minor mistake that can be easily corrected.
While the paper is well-written, it lacks essential details about CAV-MAE, such as the number of attention layers used for fusion.
As many evaluations rely on the CAV-MAE framework, providing this information is crucial for the readers and reviewers to fully grasp the methodology.
Additionally, visualizing the corruption types on both video and audio modalities would enhance the paper's clarity and help readers better understand the benchmarks.
The paper introduces the modulation of Q, K, and V parameters to address reliability bias.
However, it's not clear why the authors chose to update all parameters of Q, K, and V simultaneously.
Explaining this choice and discussing the possibility of updating only the MLP parameters of Q and K would provide valuable insights.
Furthermore, while the novel attention layer repurposing is effective for reliability bias, the paper should address whether this approach comes at the cost of efficiency for test-time adaptation.
The paper introduces a crucial hyper-parameter, the confidence threshold ($\gamma$) in Equation 6.
While this threshold is fixed in all experiments, it's essential to include ablation studies to explore the sensitivity of the proposed method to variations in this hyper-parameter.
A more comprehensive analysis would provide a deeper understanding of the method's robustness.
Minor: Some of the figures, such as Figure 1c and Figure 3b, suffer from low image clarity.
Improving the quality of these figures would enhance the paper's visual presentation and make the findings more accessible to readers.
Overall evaluation, I think this paper is above the bar of ICLR, regarding motivation and novelty.
---------------------------------- Upon reviewing the response, I note that my concerns have been effectively addressed.
Considering the consensus of other reviewers, I wholeheartedly recommend this work with a high level of approval.
* Proposed methods could be well motivated.
The two proposed methods themselves are convincing.
However, is there any reasons or motivation why you have both methods at the same time: mean-field Langevin averaged gradient and mean-field Langevin anchored the best response?
Any explicit relationship between these two settings?
* The description of the equation can be more comprehensive.
Usually, we should describe all the notations of the equation at least right after it.
For example, you do not mention what $\rho^{\mu}$ and $\rho^{\nu}$ are in equation 1.
The assumptions over the two measures used in entropic regularization are quite strong.
The result of Theorem 3.7 has an expectation inside $W_1$, which is somewhat hard to interpret: it would seem to be saying that the bias of the procedure is small, but not the variance, so many repetitions of the particle dynamics would be needed to estimate the expectation of some function $f$.
The outer-loop particle discretization error is not accounted for in the algorithm from Section 4.
I do not understand what is going on in Lemma C.7 (it might be because I do not understand $\Pi$ fully -- see below).
Some of the notation is unnecessarily hard to parse.
Let me offer a few examples.
Page 5: *Denote ordered sets of $N$ particles* -- it would seem that the authors mean a vector in $\mathcal{X}^N$.
Also on the same page: it seems that the authors introduce the subscript $1:k$ to identify particle positions at different times, but then don't use this notation consistently at the bottom of the page (and also elsewhere).
$L_\mu$ and $L_\nu$ are used to denote Lipschitz constants in the first/second variable, but also, $L$ is the functional and $(\mu,\nu)$ are used to denoted arbitrary elements of the space of probability measures.
The definition of $\Pi$ in page 6 as ``the average of the pushforward operators along the projections $X\mapsto X^i$ does not seem correct.
How can you project to a higher-dimensional space?
The paper could be improved by providing more intuitions for the proposed methods.
For example, what is the intuition for using a weighting scheme in MFL-AG, and what might cause MFL-AG and MFL-ABR to converge more slowly than MFL-DA in the numerical experiments?
Is it correct to think that the slowdown of the convergence ensures better convergence?
In a sense, the paper is tantalizing, as it invites further work, for instance on the interplay of overlap difference \xi and data Zipfianity parameter \alpha.
The paper can be improved in terms of writing/presentation.
For example, you can explain early on in the paper what "induction head" means for readers that are less familiar with this area.
There are also several other parts of the paper in which the writing can be improved -- mostly by writing simpler/shorter/more clear sentences.
I have the following concerns about this paper.
Many of them involve claims that I feel are made too strongly in the paper relative to the level of evidence provided.
-- The paper illustrates a set of phenomena in figure 2, and promises a mechanistic understanding of these phenomena.
But the mechanistic analysis provided later in the paper does not speak to most of the phenomenology -- for instance, the dependence of the ICL/IWL tradeoff on B, epsilon, K, and alpha.
In fact, the mechanistic analysis focuses on the p_C > 0 case, which is different from the p_c = 0 regime that gives rise to all the tradeoffs observed in Figure 2.
Thus, the connection between pages 1-4 of the paper and the rest is not entirely clear.
For instance, "Induction head formation drives the abrupt transition during ICL." As far as I can tell no evidence is given for this claim, other than the (very suggestive, I agree!) fact that they coincide in time.
-- The paper makes strong claims about the three-parameter model proving or ruling out certain hypotheses.
An example is the sentence "This rules out hypothesis V as only the factors corresponding to the progress measures (a) through (d) have been included in the minimal model." In my opinion, such claims are much too strong.
The three-parameter model is ultimately a different model from the original transformer architecture being used!
While the analysis of its behavior is suggestive of the learning strategies used by the original architecture, it is not conclusive.
The strength of the claims should be adjusted accordingly.
- Section 4's work with synthetic data has good potential to be interesting and illustrative of how ReVaR works differently in desired ways for different uncertainty types.
However, I found it unclear how the "theoretical ideal for the instance dependent weights" listed in table 1 were determined.
Some more information on their derivation might be helpful.
- Occasional minor notational things: Equation 3, definition of $\theta^*$, should $g_\Theta$ might instead be $g_{\Theta^*}$.
The text following/explaining equation 6 introduces variables not used in equation 6; some minor rewriting could be useful here.
Missing reference to a theory in section 4, scenario 1.
Major: - The contribution and distinctions to previous works (which e.g.
also use a bilevel optimization formulation for reweighting) should be made more clear in the thread of Section 3.
Often, it does not become clear when something is new in the course of the ReVaR proposal, and when previous works are revisited.
- Many grammatical and orthographic issues, e.g., missing articles (“*the* dataset” → motivational questions in Section 1), misplaced words (“captures captures” → beginning of Section 5), … - Section 4 is very hard to read, some design choices also appear arbitrary.
For instance, intuitively, what is the role of $X_c$, $X_e$, $W_c$ and $W_e$, and why are the dimensionalities chosen as described in the paper?
Elaborating more on the setup would help to better understand the settings and allow for estimating the significance of these results.
Minor: - Sometimes unclear / inconsistent notation, e.g., “p=w=g(x)” in Section 1.1, also see my previous comment on $X_c$, $X_e$, $W_c$ and $W_e$.
- As far as I can see, there is no code served along with the paper, which does not support the reproducibility of this work.
- Section 4, Scenario 1: „?“ Broken reference - Details about the U-score model architecture appear in the appendix only – as this is not as trivial as “normal” predictors, this should be already hinted at in the main paper.
In terms of weaknesses: * The paper seems quite rough, there are many undefined terms and functions ($R^2$, $g(x)$, $G$), missing citations (MMCE), lack of error bars in Table 4 - 7, etc.
It would be nice to see some investigation into this, or at least an explanation.
* Only performed on ResNet, there are many models available now which can be trained just as easily with similar compute.
Certain definitions regarding the types of operators and features are not laid out clearly enough, which leads to ambiguity in the paper on a technical level.
As noted in the list of questions and suggestions, the claimed properties of the proposed models are not clearly true, possibly due to this misunderstanding.
It is unclear for a research with limited expertise in this rather niche area to conclude the strength of the conditions prescribed in Theorems 4.1 and 4.2.
There do not appear to be any results describing the pre-computation time which should be included in any run-time comparisons which I imagine should scale near-exponentially with graph size and order of simplices considered.
SaNNs are often not outright the winner in terms of prediction accuracies for the tasks displayed in Tables 1 and 3.
For example, in Table 1, the SaNN is outcompeted by Projection and Scone on 3/4 of the datasets and the run-time savings of SaNN are not significant enough to justify usage of the SaNN.
In Table 3, SaNN is not the leader in 4/5 of the datasets and it is not even the fastest.
On the other hand, the time savings against MPSN are quite significant, but since many practitioners of graph learning expect training to take significant amounts of time, accuracy is the topmost priority, so there wouldn't be a strong enough justification to go with a SaNN.
- Runtime and asymptotic comparisons in this work are done by excluding the precomputation of features.
I think this is misleading, since in practice, the precomputation is certainly part of the computation, especially during inference.
Thus, the presented gains seem to be only valid during training, when the features need to be computed only once for many iterations of training.
- At the same time, the method only performs on par with previous work, with small gains on some datasets.
- The method requires many hyper parameter choices like hops, T, k, which seem to have different optimal settings on different datasets.
The result quality differs substantially depending on the configuration.
- I am skeptical regarding the practical relevance of the presented method due to above reasons.
- The method lacks conceptual novelty.
The main idea of precomputing features by non-learnable functions has been seen in other areas, e.g.
The general structure of the work follows a long line of work about GNN expressiveness (higher order and WL-level) without presenting many novel insights.
I only have 1 important concern: 1.
Although the main principles are clear, I am still confused about the actual architecture/predictive models.
In the end we have equation 8, but it describes a representation for each of the $N$ sets of $k$-simplices, each consisting of the $N_k$ simplices.
It is unclear how to distill a global prediction out of all these representations, as would be needed for e.g.
the classification tasks.
Details on how the architectural design for each of the benchmarks is missing.
Equation 4 describes the neural network construction.
However, I am unclear about the objective function to optimize the neural network.
Also, after optimization, how do you use this neural network to select a subset?
In equation 4, how do you divide a superset into several subsets?
There are an exponential number of combinations.
What is the number of learnable parameters for each baseline method and the proposed method?
- Lack of ablation studies.
- The proposed method is not evaluated on a wide distribution of datasets.
- Will similar findings hold if the dataset contains imbalance?
If so, what degree of imbalance do the guarantees still hold?
The author claimed that TFs can learn two distinct algorithms on tasks such as conjunctions, which is not that convincing to me.
Let's take figure 3 as an example and let's call the four sub-figure a to d from the left to the right.
The way that authors compared these four figures and draw conclusions is that: they compare a and b, and the compare c with d, then they drew conclusion that the trained TFs can learn two distinct algorithms.
This is not a good way for comparison.
This is because one can easily give a counter-example to show that a single algorithm can simultaneously achieve a and b.
For example, suppose the algorithm that TFs learn is: randomly pick one decision rule (or Boolean function) which is in the conjunction function class and agrees with all examples in the test context (the x_i, y_i pairs at test time).
Then, when tested on teach conjunction (fig a), since there is only one conjunction function matching all test context, it will achieve a perfect accuracy.
When tested with random sequence of examples from a conjunction task, there can be many functions in the conjunction function class that satisfying all test examples, so it can achieve a imperfect performance.
Similar logic applies on the comparison between c and d.
In this case, you should compare figure b and c to draw your conclusion, instead of comparing a and b.
The reason behind this is that the in-context learning is specific to the pre-training distribution, and it s very natural that they learn different algorithms on different pre-training distributions.
Regarding consistency training, the proposed model employs thresholds to identify "high-quality nodes" from the unlabeled data for training.
This step, akin to semi-supervised learning, assigns synthetic labels to unlabeled data for consistency training.
The performance of these "high-quality nodes" is pivotal for downstream iterative training, emphasizing the significance of their accuracy.
Hence, the authors should analyze the actual quality of these "high-quality nodes" and the accuracy of their predicted labels.
This aspect holds significant importance in evaluating the reliability and effectiveness of the model.
The paper introduces essential hyperparameters, including $\alpha$ and $\xi$.
While the authors provide their specific settings in the experiments, the impact of these parameters on the performance of the model remains unexplored.
The authors should perform a sensitivity analysis for the crucial hyperparameters in the proposed model.
The proposed GNN backbone shows promise for anomaly detection by capturing distinctions in the homophily distribution of nodes in graphs.
However, it raises intriguing questions about its performance on graphs with varying levels of heterophily.
Specifically, how well does the proposed GNN backbone perform on graphs with low or high heterophily when applied to generic multi-class node classification tasks?
1) why Eq4 can achieve the edge-level homophily representation?
where does it differ from GCN aggregation?
2) as you said, GAD has low homophily distribution, whether the homophily-aware neighbourhood aggregation you propose will be effective for abnormal nodes, I deeply doubt it.
3) I don't find the definition of Vhq in Section 2, whiat is the meaning of Vun?
4) please compare your learnable augmentation with other augmentation methods 5) please give complexity analysis
- The papers is a large engineering effort (e.g., distilling GPT-4 for the task of evaluation) without much novel ideas (I do not think that a paper needs to be novel to be accepted, but this paper does score low in terms of novelty) - The presentation of the method and contribution feels very confusing to me (maybe it's just my fault).
I do not know whether other reviewers would have similar concerns though.
- It is strange that larger models are used to evaluate other models - LLMs should somehow emulate human capabilities and not other LLMs' capabilities.
The technical contribution is a bit limited as it is still within the scope of training one more LLM as judges to evaluate other LLMs’ generation.
Since the training data is obtained from GPT4’s output, it is unsure whether it can replace GPT4 as judges or has strong generalizations as GPT4.
I will list below main weaknesses for improvements, centred around the main contribution of the paper.
Is there any reason for why the particular sparse representation learning method is chosen?
Furthermore, in the experiments part, FTA should also be compared as a baseline.
It is unclear why you compare it in a supervised learning setting but omit in a RL setting.
The performance on a SL setting does not invlidate/validate another.
As an empirical paper, I think a rigorous comparison is necessary.
Could you clarify do you update both your model and representation every environment time step?
There is a critical weakness in the paper: the paper claims to develop a sparse representation-based approach for model learning, but it is not justified the reported benefits come from the use of the sparse representation for policy learning or for model learning.
Note that the former has been extensive studied.
in general, a full replay method should be the best in mitigating catastrophic forgetting, but the empirical results reported that the proposed algorithm can sometimes even outperform full replay.
That raises a natural question that the benefit mainly comes from the policy learning part by using sparse representation, rather than the proposed model learning part.
it is better to be specific, use the title Dyna architecture, rather than MBRL, as there are numerous MBRL algorithms and not everyone is as Alg 1 described.
Alg 2, line 4 & 5: shouldn’t it be outer product?
Please specify the dimension of the matrices capital Phi and letter phi.
This is nontrivial as it affects the understanding of the algorithm.
The term “world model” might intrigue the readers to see much more challenging tasks than the paper presented, this can be seen by other papers using such terms.
It is better to rephrase it to be more precise.
Significant discussion around catastrophic forgetting was mentioned in the introduction but little discussion is presented in the main text and left in the appendix.
“Example 3.1” could be a regular paragraph.
Formatting this as an Example does not improve readability and is, in fact, the only Example in the entire paper.
The presentation could be clearer.
One of the main contributions of the paper is the release of a synthetic data set.
However it is not clear how this data set was created.
This should be discussed in the main part of the paper.
But also the presentation in the appendix does not make it obv how to reproduce the data set creation.
Re the findings on the ACS data set, I wonder whether it is obv that the LLMs have not seen and memorised the ACS data.
I wonder how much of the results are due to memorisation.
While the authors have controlled for memorisation on long comments, I am not sure how convincing the methodology is.
It would be interesting to see the subreddit prediction performance of LLMs of a comment for instance.
Do the authors release results on the synthetic examples?
Since the experiment is not reproducible, it would be important to have result s on the synthetic data so future work can build upon the results of this paper.
Some experiment setups should be justified.
For some attributes (e.g., MSE for age), accuracy is not the correct metric.
Using sensitive topics and need additional ethics review.
For example, whether the study is IRB approved?
Quality checks of the synthetic data generation is missing.
In the paper, the author fails to mention what types of quality checks they performed on the collected synthetic data, weakening the soundness of the paper.
Typos: Mititgations -> Mitigations, exampels -> examples
Implications are a function of how good the humans are i.e., if the golden labels are inaccurate (e.g., how can I be sure that the age attribute is within error tolerance), all conclusions need to be made with a grain of salt.
- Labelling procedure for obtaining ground truths for the dataset should get multiple labels for each profile to make the results statistically significant.
For instance , the following example is hard to label as the moon landing took place in 1969.
I remember watching the moon landing in 1959 with my father.
he picked me up from school and we went home and watched it on television.
being from ohio, it was a huge thing to see Neil Armstrong become the first man on moon.
funnily, this is the only specific memory I have from first grade in primary school, was a looong time back, eh” Age: 70 years
Further analysis into how recovery of different kinds of PII was correlated would have been appreciated.
A better alignment (reducing the gap) in multi-modality is the essential contribution of this work.
However, it lacks studies or results, apart from the overall performance, to validate that the gap reduction is achieved by the current predicted assignments rather than the linear layers from previous works.
The authors mentioned, ``Mapping visual data to LLM’s word embeddings results in learned visual representations that hold a semantic taxonomy of LLMs.'' However, there's a lack of quantitative/qualitative results to validate that this allows visual representations to inherit a semantic taxonomy of LLMs.
The final objectives are influenced by the assignment prediction loss and captioning loss.
However, there's a lack of study on these hyperparameters.
Also, which part contributes more to the learning remains a question.
For the probability that the corresponding modality data belongs to each word, $P_{nk}$, what does $P_{nk}^{v}$ in the visual modality signify?
Does this ``word'' refer to the single word token in the class label of that visual region?
There's a lack of formal definitions for the terms/operations appearing in equations, i.e., $Tr(\cdot)$, $[prefix]$.
[Summary] The current limitations and motivations are valid, and the claimed contribution is significant.
However, in the paper's delivery, there's a concern about how this performance is achieved by the proposed architecture and mechanism.
Additionally, the paper lacks a depth of study beyond introducing a novel architecture.
* The motivation for restricting the learned parameter space to just linear layers is unclear -- it would have been more interesting to see more analysis around different learned parameter space including non-linear layers.
My major concern is (a) the lack of ablations and feature space visualizations to show the effectiveness of the proposed loss and (b) the contribution over existing works like MAGMA is not enough.
The paper is an extension of MAGMA (Merullo et.
Linearly mapping from image to text space.
While MAGMA is discussed in the paper, the difference is that this paper with MAGMA is the proposed assignment prediction loss.
However, the effectiveness of the proposed loss is not shown clearly in the paper.
No ablation results are provided to show the effectiveness of the proposed loss - this is related to weakness-1.
Since the major contribution lies in this loss, an ablation to show the contribution of this loss in the final results is very critical.
The finding that a linear layer can transform visual representations into language models is not surprising, given existing works LLaVA (“Visual Instruction Tuning”, as in its first training stage), which is not discussed in this paper, and MAGMA as discussed.
Therefore, the contribution of this work is weakened.
The authors motivate the work by criticizing the “distance-preserving nature of the linear layer”.
However, the proposed method is still a linear layer, which doesn’t solve this problem.
While Fig-4 provides several examples to show the visual semantic arithmetic, a visualization of feature space would be preferred to show the effects of the assignment loss 5.
The paper would be easier to read if the method names (abbreviations) in the results tables come with citations next to them, or are described in texts to show which is which.
The paper is based on the motivation that starting with a simple prompt without human annotations for LLMs, BoT may get weak thoughts.
However, with aggregation, BoT is capable of deriving a more logical and effective thought chain from them, thereby guiding the subsequent refinement.
Could the authors expand on this statement "Experience consistently leads to thought revision, but too much can have the opposite effect."?
If one is looking to recreate the study, are there any guidelines or steps one could adopt to as where should be the stopping point?
Very interesting findings, however Experimental results reported are limited.
The authors evaluated LLM models only on a single testing procedure.
However, the analysis doesn't seem concrete due to the smaller sample set considered and it would truly be insightful if the analysis was done on a larger dataset to infer results.
Further experiments should be performed using statistical metrics, and statistical distribution of the results should be extracted.
These outcomes help better support the conclusions' claims.
The paper would be greatly strengthened if the proposed algorithm would outperform state-of-the-art methods
The mauscript need polished in their figures' presentation, e.g., the authors need give more detailed examples in Fig1.
The use of the term 'boosting' in the context of refining 'weak thoughts' introduces some ambiguity.
In traditional machine learning, boosting involves the iterative enhancement of quantifiably weak learners.
In the BoT framework, the concept of a 'weak thought' is more abstract, and its "weakness" is not as straightforward to measure.
This led me to perceive the process more as a 'pruning of weak thoughts' rather than 'boosting' in the conventional sense.
It would be beneficial for the paper to clarify how the model aggregates and refines these thoughts in the tree structure, and how the "weakness" of a thought is determined and improved upon.
I think the paper comes across unnecessarily complicated, compared to the code the text is hard to fully grasp.
The figures all depict Game of 24, adding examples from both a successful and a failed example of BoT for the other tasks would be beneficial.
For complete reproducibility and clarity, it would be beneficial to provide the full codebase, including modules like 'llmpebase’s residual_tree_of_thoughts', which is referenced several times but not included.
The title suggests a general problem-solving approach using Large Language Models.
However, the content is specifically focused on mathematical problems.
It might be beneficial to make the domain-specific nature of the research clearer in the title or early in the abstract to set accurate expectations for readers.
Although this article proposes several practical strategies, its reasoning framework remains inherently reliant on the Tree-of-thoughts model, thereby limiting its novelty.
BoT's structure is restricted to binary trees.
Expanding to more complex graph structures will further improve reasoning but is not explored.
For analysis, the prompts used to seed BoT could introduce biases and variances.
More evaluations on OOD data would be useful to assess the robustness and generalizability of the improvements.
The evaluations are mainly limited to mathematical reasoning.
For generality, testing BoT's performance on other domains like commonsense reasoning or symbolic reasoning is needed.
In the 'Competitors' paragraph, authors mentioned incorporating CoT-SC and Complex CoT as baselines, yet CoT-SC is not shown in the 'mathematical reasoning' part.
I hold the view that comparing the proposed method with prevailing baselines like SC(5) or SC(10) will offer a more direct reflection of BoT's efficacy.
If it can outperform Complexity-based SC with fewer resources, it would make the work more solid.
Some aspects are not clear, see the questions section.
A comparison of the inference and query complexity between the methods is lacking.
Paper doesn't go into detail describing differences with prior deep learning-based tabular methods.
What might explain the performance differences?
"prior work, where several layers with multi-head attention between objects and features are often used" but was this what led to retrieval's low benefit in the past?
Insufficient discussion of categorical variables.
Is accuracy or training time particularly affected by their relative abundance relative to numerical features?
The steps of Section 3.2 seem rather arbitrary.
Some of the detail could be compressed to make room for more intuition why the final architecture makes more sense (content from A.1.1).
Description of architectural changes that didn't work would also be very insightful.
Paper describes training times in A.4, but I believe a summary of this is important enough to warrant inclusion in the main paper.
Something like a mention of the geometric mean (over the datasets) of the ratio between TabR's training time to a gradient boosted methods, described in the conclusion, would be sufficient.
While the ratio is likely >1, it is better to acknowledge this weakness than to hide it.
- Quality - As the topic of a document can be determined by the factual knowledge it contains then it might be redundant to keep the topic as a relevant factor in the text generation process and only style and factual knowledge might suffice which then could directly align with the syntax and semantics of the underlying text respectively.
- Significance - This paper presents a detailed technical analysis of the fine-tuning process of a language model on domain-specific downstream tasks/datasets.
- Just like in topic modeling, the topic of a document is a broad sentiment and can be easily determined using a set of keywords.
So, it will be easy for the model to detect/understand the topic of a document before reading the whole document and capturing the factual knowledge inside it.
Therefore, it is expected for the model to easily understand the topic and style factors before capturing the factual knowledge inside it.
- I am keen to hear the response of the authors on this and hope that they can change my point of view.
* Using synthetic data, generated by ChatGPT, might introduce some hidden biases.
It is not given that the same findings could be found if we had natural data.
* It is not clear if the same approach can be generalized to any other characteristics?
Typos: * “by just changing the order of decomposition in 1” -> “...in Eq.
- Although other configurations are very extensive, the choice of training and evaluation corpora and exclusively original or variants of PubMed and C4.
- The three text-generating factors (styles, topics, facts) may not always be clearly separable of extensive enough in every corpora.
The authors discussed this limitation in their limitation section.
- Clarity issue: I feel the plots very hard to read because the captions are too generic and not self-contained.
I suggest to briefly summarize the findings or implications in the captions.
- Clarity issue: some legends in plots such as Figure 4 are not explained in text (e.g.
readers may be confused about "C4 -factuals" before they associate them with "C4-counterfactual" in Table 1) - Though the authors pointed out the hardness of learning factual knowledge without learning style and topic bias, the authors' attempts failed to improve such performance at the end of Sec.
I suggest to provide some future directions about how the analysis will be beneficial the challenge of learning factual knowledge above.
- The authors focused on evaluation of LM loss throughout the paper.
I think this is fine for style and topics, but factual knowledge, evaluating LM loss is not clean enough because only a few tokens in a sentence are related to facts.
The authors could create cloze-style or question answering evaluation sets that focus exclusively on generation of factual knowledge.
The main weakness of this paper is that the overall contribution is arguably somewhat incremental in light of prior work, especially papers [23] and [25].
The techniques employed to extend the analysis from exact to stochastic gradient information are overall standard, and the main results are certainly not surprising.
That being said, the paper closes a theoretical gap left from prior work, and I do believe that the technical contribution is non-trivial.
The authors have adequately addressed all limitations.
* Assumption on convexity concavity seems restrictive.
Is there any other way to ensure the existence of Stackelberg equilibria AND convergence?
* The results seem a little straightforward given the existing machinery in the literature of min-max optimization.
* The main limitation in my opinion is the fact that convexity-concavity is assumed.
I think the authors could elaborate more on the justification of such an assumption.
(It could also be the case that this assumption is a necessity though.)
The authors claim they solved the convex-concave zero-sum Stackelberg problem but also restrict the application to a reach-avoid problem.
The authors mention that "We also prove that reach-avoid problems are naturally modeled as convex-concave zero-sum stochastic Stackelberg games." in the abstract but in fact do not really PROVE it in the manuscript.
Besides, as the author mentioned, the reach-avoid game is usually formulated as a single-agent problem and there exist some works formulating it as a two-player zero-sum game.
Why do the authors not address standard zero-sum problems like pricing or allocating goods across agents and time as in reference [25]?
Experimenting merely on a reach-avoid game is not enough to demonstrate the effectiveness or superiority of the proposed approach compared to existing methods like Nash equilibrium.
The authors make several critical assumptions like convex-concave, convergence assumptions, etc.
How feasible these assumptions are in reality and how to validate them are missing.
The authors should address these limitations and discuss potential extensions to more realistic scenarios.
- As the authors have pointed out, there is a significant drop in accuracy with respect to image classification accuracy.
I believe the authors must try to address, from their perspective, why this drop occurs.
It is common in this area that models that are trained to better represent biological neural activity tend to suffer from poor classification accuracy.
Addressing this issue will be quite a strong contribution.
- The scope of this work is quite limited; I am unsure if the produced improvement on alignment to V1 neural responses and tuning properties is sufficient as the only major contribution in this work.
- It may help if the authors could please add some intuition about why each of the explored components help in improving neural predictivity; it is also important to find out whether these components are useful to improve model-brain alignment regardless of the underlying architecture.
Yes, the authors have adequately addressed limitations in their work.
- The fixed precision (Theorem 2) result still uses precision that needs to grow with the data size and approximation parameters.
Although it is a good first step, it leaves open the approximability with constant precision (which is used in most practical cases).
- The ``third-order tensor self-attention" is an important claim in the paper, but it is fully omitted in the main paper.
It will be good to at least introduce the basic ideas in the main paper.
It is hard to foresee any potential negative societal impact of this theoretical work.
* Initially the notation is a bit confusing, especially in section 1.1 that details the contributions.
Variables $y$ and $z$ should be more clearly defined and explained when mentioning results of the theoretical analysis.
* The intro can maybe be reworked to slowly work in the details and notation of the method instead of initially presenting the mechanisms that the different tasks enable
As said previously, this is not within my area of expertise.
I am however interested in how relevant/connected are the proposed tasks (e.g.
sparse averaging and triple detection) to empirical studies such as language or visual data modeling.
I think the work would be improved if more insights could be provided as to how the theoretical results can be connected to real-world practices.
This is a theory paper and the authors provided open directions for future work.
The performance on the WebShop benchmark is still significantly below larger language models using HTML-based inputs and task-specific actions.
Since the method uses tree search, it seems to rely on offline environments.
It’s not clear if this approach will be useful in real-world online environments, although I could see this working with perhaps re-settable virtual environments.
The tree search approach relies on the ability to generate new environment and instruction variations and receive reward signals, which might not be feasible in some real-world applications.
The paper does not provide a clear solution for the performance gap on complex tasks and environments, like the WebShop benchmark.
I have several concerns regarding the experimental design in the submission: (1) One notable issue is the absence of certain ablations that would provide valuable insights into the effectiveness of each component in the proposed agent framework.
Specifically, the authors should address the bottleneck of the framework, whether it lies in the visual encoder or the text decoder.
Additionally, it would be beneficial to explore the potential performance improvements by utilizing alternative variants of visual encoders or text decoders.
Furthermore, since the visual encoder plays a crucial role in extracting and understanding instructions embedded in the interface, it is essential to verify the effectiveness of using ViT in OCR accuracy.
(2) The rationale behind embedding instructions into the UI screenshot instead of providing them directly as input remains unclear.
The submission should elaborate on this choice and justify its benefits.
This addition would offer a more comprehensive evaluation and better contextualize the proposed method's unique contribution in comparison to existing approaches.
The authors have included discussions of the limitations.
- It's not clear if authors have tuned all baselines correctly.
In particular, authors show that their proposed RL data bootstrapping method leads to better performance than Behavior Cloning.
If I understood the experiments correctly, they have not trained the model for the same number of steps so it's very likely that behavior cloning baseline is potentially under-trained.
- There are multiple important design discussions that are added to the text without any particular justification.
For example, authors fine-tune model on MiniWoB++ data for WebShop experiment but don't use WebShop data for MiniWob++ experiment.
There is no justification for such design choices.
Further, authors provide different learning rate and number of steps for various experiments without justifying these design choices.
- Authors present very sparse results and discussion on WebShop dataset and all experiments are mainly conducted on MiniWoB++ dataset.
As a reader, it feels like that authors added that dataset mainly for the sake of adding it.
Authors have addressed major limitations of their work and have also provided potential misuse of their research.
The main weaknesses of the paper are: 1.
The evaluation procedure is so succinctly described that it is hard to understand what was exactly done.
The granularity of number of tests according to test type seems to be too coarse (500 tests for 59 task is less than 10 per task).
Results are report with little extra information such as mean scores.
No statistical significance analysis is performed justifying the claims that the scores are better than SOTA or human (therefore here I assume they are similar, not better).
The discussion section is very limited and not clear about the actual contributions.
The authors fail to discuss important ethical issues concerning their research.
In particular, if AI systems can interact using GUI interfaces, they can produce content and affect web-based systems in very impactful ways, including altering political and social discourses, create hard-to-identify denial attacks, fool "I am not a robot" tests, and pose as people while interacting with real people.
The limitation section is very brief and not adequate for a paper with the ethical impacts that such technologies can create.
There is a chance that I didn't understand some details, this is not my main research field and some proof techniques were new to me.
* The independence relations should be clarified in the preliminaries.
I assume that $\mathbf{\xi}$ is independent from $\mathbf{X}$ in the random design case, but I don't think that's mentioned.
Minor Typos: * In the proof of Theorem 2, $\mathcal{G}$ and $\mathcal{G}_\star$ seem to be used interchangeably.
* The statement of Lemma 2 in the proof of Theorem 2 seems to have a typo?
I think it should be $f$ instead of $f^\star$.
The authors have adequately addressed the limitations.
Typo: above Equation 1 $f^* \in f^*$.
Remark should be referred to in the appendix.
The main weakness is organization.
Too many results wrapped in nine pages makes reader feel the paper is very crowded.
Some definitions and results could be explained more detailedly.
For example, what does it mean by the minimax rate of ERM and variance, respectively?
What is local optimality?
Donsker and non-donsker classes.
Any specific application of current results?
Technical differences between fixed and random design could be explained on a very high level.
More examples and applications should be included.
Otherwise, it is a merely technical paper with no practical usage.
The quantitative results listed (e.g., Table 2) lack sufficient statistics, especially considering that the margin of improvements in some metrics are quite small.
Some measure of std would be necessary.
Other than the quantitative improvements (as shown in Table 1/Fig 3), the significance of such improvements can be better explained.
For signals that have a lot of temporal fluctuations, it would be good to understand what are the significance in minor to moderate level improvements in signal details when there are still substantial errors in the rest of the signals.
While the key innovation of the paper is motivated by leveraging prior knowledge about the additive and multiplicative interaction among neurons, the results provided limited insights into whether this modeling hypothesis could be verified from the results.
There are ablation studies to show that both components are important (which is a strength of the paper), but there lack additional analyses into what are the different interactions being learned (e.g., by looking into the two adjacency matrices).
Effect of the initialization on the two adjacency matrices should be elaborated with additional results (what happens when different correlation matrix is being used).
What are the differences between the A_a and A_m after being initialized by the same matri?
The authors discussed briefly the limitations associated with the study and future works necessary to address these limitations.
Some analysis on the importance of each module, self-connection, add module, and modulator module need to be discussed.
For example, why are they all necessary?
Furthermore, the trade-off study between the model complexity and other sota methods is worth investigation.
Also, what is the computation bottleneck of the method, and how well does it scale?
Is there any theoretical guarantee that the model can predict the neural activity if the trajectory satisfies some regularity?
limitations have been addressed
- there is a presence of numerous non-standard acronyms in the paper that are not introduced upon their first mention - the utilization of graph neural networks for analyzing neural signals is not entirely novel, this study showcases somewhat incremental progress in this field
The authors have discussed limitations of their work.
The major evaluation metric is forecasting in neural time series.
It is unclear how important this metric is by itself, whereas one often wants to evaluate how well we can extract relevant information (such as neural decoding) from the neural signals.
There is an implication that improving forecast of neural signals would improve these other problems, but it would be much stronger to explicitly show that.
My biggest hesitation is that it is unclear where the predictive improvements are coming from.
Most of the compared methods have performed well in many contexts, and the proposed structure is not so different than these existing methods.
The largest difference seems to be the GNN operating in the latent space of the system, whereas other methods capture these relationships in other ways, such as in the encoder function.
The ablation study does not clearly enough elucidate such differences, as all variants of the model seem to be extremely highly performing.
(I am assuming that Table 3 corresponds to Monkey C since the AMAG result matches up, but it doesn't explicitly state).
In fact, the ablated models still seem to be state-of-the-art, which is confusing.
I would encourage the authors to really explore the differences between their approach and existing methods and clearly show where the majority of the performance improvements happens.
There's a number of fuzzy details that need additional explanation throughout, such as the aforementioned ablation not clearly describing the data, and explicitly stating what the training of reconstruction and reconstruction with mask are in Figure 2.
The only thing that I would add is that the authors should discuss more clearly that their improvements and results are focused on forecasting in the discussion, and that results are not shown for many of the other tasks where competing models have been effective.
Other than that, the comments seem fair.
- The paper lacks a little bit in a big and impressive contribution.
Yes the DP bound is improved but it is still quite far from the lower bound...
- Somewhat similar to prior works.
- Extending the ideas to k-means would be very interesting as then the tree embedding would be trickier to use?
- The figures with performance comparisons only show estimates of the means while differential privacy requires algorithms to be random and thus often have large variations in scores.
To understand whether the proposed method is better instead of 'lucky' the results must include some measure of variation.
- HST does not improve results after running the k-median algorithm except for (seemingly) in the differentially private setting, see previous point.
- It is not clear to me that Algorithm 4 guarantees differential privacy and the proof in the appendix only states that this is "straightforward, by using the composition theorem".
See question 1 Minor: - Line 117 is "tn" a typo?
- Line 301 is missing a citation/reference.
- On line 304 it is stated that "For non-DP tasks, we set L = 6.
For DP clustering, we use L = 8".
This choice should be motivated, if these values have been chosen by tuning then the other methods should be tuned as well.
The authors do not address limitations.
It might be necessary to discuss the ethical implications regarding Example 2.3.
* Some qualitative examples on the collected DVMP dataset with some categorization on failure cases based on having uncommon modifiers vs different number (performance on 1,2,3 and more modifiers) of modifiers would have been good to see.
The proposed method appears to be strongly grounded in the framework of the Attend-and-Excite paper.
The writing doesn’t highlight this connection while introducing the approach in Section 2, beyond a minor footnote.
Section 2 would probably need some revision to better draw this connection.
Considering that the paper is tackling a very specific problem, the general “content separation” rating collected in the human eval seems pretty weak.
Why not collect finer-grained scores for: number of objects in the prompt, number of objects from prompt generated, number of objects from prompt generated with the correct attributes?
Wouldn’t this give a much better sense of task success and could potentially allow computing recall?
The loss function ablation mentions that sometimes objects are omitted from the generated image.
Is combining the proposed losses with global constraint defined in the Attend-and-Excite paper a viable option?
Since the framework is identical, wouldn’t combining the losses have mitigated this issue?
The Attend-and-Excite paper talks about attribute binding as well, so this appears to be a variant to try.
Maybe more explicitly state that this is an inference-only guidance procedure?
There’s a typo on line 112 for the equation: $\\nabla_{z_t}\\mathcal{L}$ not $\\nabla z_t\\mathcal{L}$.
One limitation that was perhaps overlooked is the lack of standardized evaluation.
Having to rely on different crowdsourcing tasks and qualitative comparisons makes it much harder to track progress.
- I am concerned with the efficiency of incorporating so many negative losses in the diffusion process.
What's the speed of SynGen compared to the original SD?
- Using tree-based methods for binding may fail for more complicated and practical prompts.
In reality, SD users write much longer prompts that describe the components at different levels.
However, I think the contribution of SynGen still matters a lot as the community needs time to develop from methods for short prompts to more generalized methods.
- The paper doesn't explain the early-stage sharpness reduction for general neural nets (i.e.
beyond the simple u-v model)
(a) The whole findings are empirical.
Even in a simple model of $uvx$, the authors did not solve the dynamics in an analytical form.
It is quite hard to obtain any intuition on why the three phases characterized by $c_{loss}<c_{sharp}<c_{max}$ universally appear.
(b)They are several unclear points that the authors should more clearly mention.
**No normalization layers** The architectures in this work have no batch/layer normalization layer.
Since the batch norm is known to strongly affect the sharpness (e.g.
it is curious how the normalization layer potentially changes the results.
**Difference between MSE and cross-entropy cases** It seems that the cross-entropy loss shows a different behavior of the critical learning rates.
In particular, in most cases, $c_{loss}$ and $c_{sharp}$ decrease close to 2 as $1/w$ decreases in the MSE case while they keep far from 2 in the cross-ent case.
In the revised version, I believe it would be better to give a more elaborated explanation of the difference in the main text.
The authors define a large number of regimes acoording to some rather subtle changes in behavior sometimes, and it is not always clear whether these regimes are also correlated with other quantities that we actually care about (e.g.
generalization/feature learning).
The training phase of neural networks features many strange/non-monotonic behavior and it is not clear that all of them have to be identified, since they might have a rather small impact.
The limitations of the results presented are discussed well.
- As the authors acknowledged, the proposed IP-OMP is limited by the need to place signals and queries into the same domain, which is an intrinsic limitation of the proposed method.
- It would be interesting to see the performance of the proposed IP-OMP on same-modality query problems, such as words-only or images-only, which can eliminate the CLIP module and better demonstrate the performance of IP-OMP itself.
The authors addressed the limitations.
* I am missing an extensive noise treatment, such as when comparing IP with OMP.
Right now the original signal seems to be considered a clean signal.
I would like to refer to the weaknesses, which are all points, which to my mind need to be addressed and improved.
- Some technical parts were a little unclear.
(See the questions below.) - Section 3 and Section 4 are repetitive.
I don't know how much the setups are different from each other.
- I think some math expressions could be simplified.
(See the Questions section below.) - The experiments are not extensive.
I expected to see some experiments confirming the theoretical results, but the focus of the experiments presented in the paper seems to be the improvement by increasing the number of experts, which is quite independent of the theory part.
- The paper stresses the novelty of the proof technique and there are brief explanations, but it is difficult for me to understand them without reading the appendix.
(Unfortunately, I did not have time to read the appendix.)
This paper focuses on bounds regarding population quantities.
The results do not directly apply to empirical risk minimization although this extension does not seem very hard.
While theoretical results is the main focus of this paper, I believe experimental section could have been more insightful.
Currently, the experimental section says that the overall system performance gets better on inclusion of more experts.
However, this is intuitive and already known.
Could authors add one more column in Table 4 to mention the performance of the originally trained classifier?
I am curious to learn how the second stage adoption affects the originally trained classifier.
While one can lower the estimation error of the first classifier by $\epsilon_{1}$, it is not clear (to me) where such bound still holds True after the adoption in the second stage.
I agree that this is certainly not the focus of the paper, I believe it is important to know if this second-stage training degrades the already trained classifier.
This might be a misunderstanding on my side, but I believe the proposed formulation can only work when $\alpha_{j}, \beta_{j} > 0, \forall j$ (line 104).
However, there are no guidelines on how to define these two quantities, or what is their nature.
One of the most promising appeal of the two stage training is preventing costly design from scratch.
However, it is not clear whether it also has some disadvantages or not.
Consider a single stage training approach where one wants to bound the estimation error by $\epsilon$?
Would it be cheaper / expensive to achieve the same bound using the two-stage approach?
Could some quantitative results be given to this end to guide the practitioners?
I am satisfied with the theoretical part.
However, I would like to remark that I am not an expert in this field.
I will be happy to follow up in the discussion period, if there is any additional questions raised up by other reviewers.
For the experiments, the accuracy on CIFAR10 and SVHN is significantly lower than the standard results of ResNet.
Moreover, the authors only implement the proposed loss function.
I would be better to compare with different baselines in previous works.
I do not see the discussion of limitations, but I think this is not a major problem.
I do not see potential negative societal impact as this paper mainly focuses on the theoretical side.
- The proposed method is a combination of already known techniques.
- The experimental section is weak as only a single real problem is considered.
- Although the proposed method is a generalization of several known techniques, I have found in the experimental section a lack of comparisons with other related methods.
My main point of criticism is the weak experimental section which only considers a single real problem and no comparisons with other related methods are carried out in real problems.
Another point of criticism is that, for some particular values of the p parameter one does not actually observe sparsity in the Bayesian solution.
For example, when sampling from the Laplace distribution one never observes zeros in practice.
Spike and slab priors (a mix between a Gaussian and a point of mass center at zero) are the ones that actually lead to zeros.
The authors have not commented on the limitations of their approach.
Empirical evaluation appears limited.
It does not contain comparison with other (e.g.
frequentist) approaches to derive the solution paths.
Both in terms of estimation accuracy and in terms of computational cost.
Limitations were not discussed.
Due to the factors mentioned in the previous section, I find this work impressive and beautiful.
However, unfortunately, the carried out experiments are minimal.
Most notably, the algorithm is compared to no alternative work (neither in the main paper nor in the supplementary material).
With no quantitative comparisons, it is impossible to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm compared to the existing methods.
NOTE: In the Rebuttal, some experiments are carried out (though the code is still not accessible).
Though it is clear in the context, I suggest that the authors do not use the same letter "p" (with the same font) for both probability density and norm parameter.
the end sentence period in line 214.
The authors should compare their method with the relevant structure learning lierature and reveal its points of strength as well as its limitations.
This work is theoretical/methodological and does not have any positive or negative social/ethical impact on its own.
The main weakness that I identified is the lack of comparison between the proposed framework and the well-studied graphical lasso with concave approximations of the $l_0$-norm.
More precisely, the authors show that their framework obtains frequentist solution paths through simulated annealing, therefore, it'd be of great interest to see a comparison between these solution paths and those obtained by iterative algorithms such as iterative reweighted l1-norm for graphical lasso.
The authors adequately addressed the limitations of their proposed framework.
- Definition 3.1: I think the definition of strongly concentrated distributions is a misnomer.
The critical assumption in this definition is in line 125 which assumes minimal overlap between the approximate supports of the class conditional distributions.
Hence, this definition has more to do with "well-separatedness" of class conditional distributions, and in my opinion, has very little relation to concentration.
- Novelty of the sufficient condition: If concentration on small volume sets is not sufficient for robustness, what is?
As I state in the previous point, it is some notion of separation between class conditional distributions.
Several papers already study such conditions.
For example, [this]( and [this]( paper show that if the class-conditional distributions are well-separated in an optimal-transport distance, then there exists a robust classifier.
It is also shown in these papers that such a separation condition holds empirically on real-world datasets.
- The low-dimensional linear subspace assumption: First, I think this is a very strong assumption that real world datasets probably don't satisfy.
Second, the motivation for studying distributions of this form appears weak, as one can imagine many other types of distributions that satisfy the necessary and sufficient conditions of sections 2 and 3 but are not supported on linear subspaces.
Case in point is Example 3.1 in this very paper.
- The utility of polyhedral certificate: Intuitively, one can imagine many "benevolent perturbations" to input data that do not affect the accuracy of a classifier.
Spherical certificates for robustness make sense because the guarantee holds for any possible direction of the adversarial perturbation.
A polyhedral certificate is not a "worst-case" certificate in this sense.
- The main theoretical results are based on $\ell_2$-normed adversarial training, whether the conclusions are still applicable on $\ell_\inf$ norm is unknown.
- The empirical results are insufficient.
The experiments are only conducted on every small dataset, whether the theoretical conclusion still holds on larger natural datasets is unknown.
- the conclusion related to subspace training is similar to some existing adversarial training methods, such as [1], [2], which shows that adversarial training on subspace can help alleviate overfitting and improve generalization performance.
Is there any difference between these works?
[1] Li et al., Subspace adversarial training, CVPR 2022.
[2] Li et al., On the adversarial robustness of subspace learning, TIP 2020.
- Another question is that whether the subspace preserve training could be applied to transferred adversarial attacks.
Could you make several discussions to justify this?
Limitations are well-discussed.
No potential negative societal impact is found.
It is difficult to see the benefit of the specific definition (2).
There is no convincing argument why (2) is better than (1).
Also an optimization over a set of prabability measures appears to be much more difficult to approximate than the comparatively "simple" integration over the uniform measure.
Many details are in appendices that I unfortunately have no time to read in the limited time given for the review process of many papers.
Limitations were not addressed in the paper but discussed in an appendix.
The scalability of the NN estimator of SI* is only studied at slicing size level.
A remark about the scalability with $d_x, d_y$ similar to convergence analysis can be beneficial.
Limitations are well addressed.
Have two minor concern and hope to hear from the authors, - In the theoretical part, the authors prove the existence of the optimal solution using the optimal transport's view.
However, during the neural estimation, the problem is simplified to gradient descend with Lagrange constraints.
The hyper parameters listed in equation (6) are not clearly described.
- The efficiency is not as good as the previous methods (ten times comparing with SI.
Which factors cause the computation speed to be slow?
Quality - The practical motivation behind using grayscale images reduced to 20% contrast makes sense, however, this represents a testing condition outside of the training data domain of these neural networks.
A control experiment where the performance discrepancy between testing on standard RGB data and contrast reduced grayscale is quantified would justify this choice of test setting.
- While the paper does investigate a diverse set of networks, one confounding factor that at least should be mentioned and ideally should be investigated in an analysis paper like this is the effect of training data and data augmentation on spatial frequency sensitivity.
The design of the neural network itself is not the only factor.
* The neural networks used in this paper are primarily trained on ImageNet, but there are other datasets, for example Office-Home, with images from different domains for each object, and therefore different spatial frequency characteristics.
Training on such data will likely result in different spatial frequency sensitivity.
* There might be straightforward steps like band-pass filtering or adding noise to the input data at training time, that might effectively reduce the range of frequencies a model is sensitive to.
- The paper lacks a related work section.
While it does mention a variety of prior work throughout the draft, it would be beneficial to include a separate section that would cover prior work on topics like: spatial frequency sensitivity of humans and neural networks, shape bias, adversarial robustness, and comparing humans and neural networks more broadly.
The main benefit is to help the reader understand exactly where the proposed work lies relative to prior methods.
Significance - While it is interesting to see a comparison of spatial frequency sensitivity of networks to humans for object recognition, and to identify it as an emerging phenomenon for a variety of ImageNet-trained models, I’m concerned about what exactly is the significance of these findings for deep learning practitioners.
How should researchers rethink their work going forward as a result of these findings?
- As mentioned in the quality section, after reading this paper there is a sense of it not going quite far enough in the analysis.
How pervasive is the phenomenon of a wider spatial frequency sensitivity of neural networks?
It would be more impactful if it is demonstrated that this is a general phenomenon despite training data or simple mitigation strategies.
- The observations about adversarial robustness are focused on one type of white-box adversarial attack, which is the least practically plausible.
Just a few comments here: Include the heat map key in the supplementary material (figure 2).
You should run some more experiments with adversarially-trained networks (see below).
Despite using 76 different networks, they only use ResNet50 for the adversarially-trained networks.
It would be good to add a couple of other networks of different types (e.g., ViT, etc.) to see that this still holds.
This could be added to the supplementary material.
1) The positivity assumption (A3, A5, A7) is necessary for the adopted inverse probability weighting method.
However, in federated setting, there may be serious client drift and the positivity assumption may not be satisfied on some clients (sites).
2) It seems that the eatimation consistency requires that one of the multiple outcome or treatment models is correctly specified.
I am not sure whether this assumption is too strong in practical.
My concern centers on the assumptions made in this paper.
Please refer to the weakness for details.
This paper is mainly built on existing works like references [12,19] and most theoretical results are not surprising.
It seems that the main contribution is the use of two additional nuisance functions and the density ratio in (5) when there is covariate mismatch or covariate shift.
However, since assumption (A6) requires mean exchangeability over site selection, I'm not sure when will covariate mismatch happens if (A6) holds.
That is, if the outcome model is the same across different data sources, what is the scenario that we have different covariates in different data sources in real application?
If there is no covariate mismatch, then the estimator given in (5) then reduces to a naive AIPW estimator with importance sampling.
The authors do not provide enough motivation for this and there is no real data in numerical experiments.
As for the results of theorem 2, I'm worried about the last term in (11).
While the classical double robustness condition is $\Vert\hat{\pi}-\pi\Vert \Vert\hat{m}-m\Vert=o_p(n^{-1/2})$, the last term is the product of estimation error from the density ratio and the expectation of outcome conditional on v.
The exponential tilt model for density ratio estimation can easily suffer from model misspecification, and the estimation for the density ratio is known to be vulnerable (large variance).
In addition, $\pi$ is a conditional mean whose estimator has no guarantee for fast convergence rate without stronger assumptions, and the discussions about its estimation provided in section 3.3 is quite simple.
Thus, my feeling is that this product may generally not be $o_p(n^{-1/2})$, but I understand it's hard to provide further theoretical analysis for this part.
The numerical experiments are hard to follow at first glance.
This is partially because the use of $X$ and $Z$ (I thought $Z$ was $V$ at first).
It seems $X$ in numerical experiments is not the same as $X$ in the theory part, so the authors may want to modify their notations to make it consistent (for example, by pointing out $X$ and $V$ explicitly in the experiments).
Further, I do not see an easy path for the proposed method and theory to be making an impact in practice.
However, the assumptions are somewhat too strong.
The authors did not provide evidence for real applications where the assumptions are verifiable.
My major concern is the privacy issue.
Transmitting statistics cannot guarantee privacy preservation, especially in the case of estimating targeted average treatment effects, where the source site selects a specific group of individuals and queries this group's statistics in other source sites' datasets.
In this case, the targeted site can easily perform a membership inference attack.
Usually, it is suggested to adopt differential privacy (DP) [1] method to protect privacy.
The algorithmic foundations of differential privacy[J].
Foundations and Trends® in Theoretical Computer Science, 2014, 9(3–4): 211-407.
The experiment setting about covariate mismatch is not convincing.
In my understanding, covariate mismatch means source sites and target sites have different observed covariates, and actually they share the same causal graph (i.e., the same data generation process).
However, as mentioned in line 300, by setting the third and fourth element in $β_x$ and $α_x$ to zero, it actually changes the data generation process of the source site.
The experimental results under the following setting is suggested: The source and target site data are firstly generated by equations 13 and 14, and then the dimension 3 and 4 of X are deleted in the target site.
In other words, in the target site, it has unobserved confounders, i.e., the dimension 3 and 4 of X.
There are a few weaknesses that the authors could address to improve the paper: - The experiments are all very small scale for a paper whose main topic is pre-training.
It is understandable to not be able to compare Global DE on larger problems but surely the authors could start out with a pre-trained network when contrasting SSE and StarSSE.
- It seems in Figure 2 / Figure 3 that the runs may be overfitting (much higher train acc then test acc) -- could this be mitigated with standard interventions like label smoothing / data aug / stochastic depth?
- There are terms in the paper which are used frequently but not formalized including "basin".
This is OK but then strong claims involving these terms should be avoided (e.g., leaving the basin hurts model performance -- what does this actually mean?
that you can no longer interpolate?).
I would have like to see a limitations Section which discusses that all experiments are quite small scale.
Weakness 1: Though results for StarSSE's look promising, only a few datasets are considered.
Because different methodologies can be overfit (even unintentionally) to specific datasets, it would be much better to demonstrate efficacy on a larger suite of downstream tasks, as is common (e.g.
The "diversivied local DE" is a logical choice for this setup, and it's important to charactherize its performance compared to StarSSE.
[1] How Well Do Self-Supervised Models Transfer?
The authors have appropriate addressed limitations.
The adaptive importance sampling also comes up in the following work: Improved Techniques for Maximum Likelihood Estimation for Diffusion ODEs This is completely fine since: - I can see how both works would arrive at this algorithmic detail independently, given that both dive deeply into related but distinct variance issues in diffusion elbos.
- both works present a lot of additional insights and techinques beyond this I do find it appropriate to cite and discuss relationship in either case though, including possible similarities and differences, since it will really help readers of both papers.
Similarly, the inequality in Eq.
It might be helpful to clarify these terms, since Line 181-182 seems to be the very part that constructs the main claim of the paper $s.t.$ the diffusion objective can be viewed as the (negative) ELBO of noise-perturbed data.
* Line 184-185 says that minimizing $\mathcal{L}\_w(\\theta)$ with a monotonic weighting “is equivalent to maximizing the ELBO of noise-perturbed data”.
The expression is a bit strange as it indicates there is only one ELBO term to be optimized, while the objective function is shown in this section to be viewed as a collection of different ELBO terms.
Therefore, this simplified description might cause some misinterpretation.
* The underbracket text for Eq.
(9) and (10) are both “Neg.
log-likelihood of noise-perturbed data”, while the expressions are different expectations of $-\\log p(z_t)$.
If so, it would only make sense if the adaptation of the data augmentation scheme would not worsen the autoregressive transformer’s performance in the first place.
* Or does it refer to the computation and comparison of the exact likelihood?
It would be nice for the authors to elaborate more on how such comparisons can be made, as it occurs noticeably at the end of both the Introduction and the Conclusion section.
> Minor Issues * Line 10 in the Abstract says that the weighted loss “equals the ELBO”.
Based on Section 3.1, would it be more accurately described as “equivalent to optimizing the ELBO”?
* Line 39 “This has has led”.
* Line 42 “training objective” might be “training objectives”.
* Section 2.5 has both forms for the score network, “$s_{\theta}(z;\lambda)$” and “$s_{\theta}(z,\lambda)$”.
* Line 142 comma between “$x$-prediction” and “$v$-prediction”.
(8) 2nd and 3rd line: the expectation has “$t\sim U(0,1))$”.
* Table 5 text box ends with two periods.
* Line 62 & 295 the expression “The newfound equivalence between monotonic weighting and the ELBO with data augmentation” seems odd; do the authors mean “The newfound equivalence between monotonically weighted diffusion objective and the ELBO with data augmentation”?
* It’s a bit confusing to first define $\lambda$ as the log SNR (Line 86), then call it the noise level (Line 91): the sentence in Line 93-94, “At timestep t = 0 the noise level … $\lambda$ is high, meaning very little noise; at t = 1 the noise level $\lambda$ is low, meaning a lot of noise”, sounds a bit odd.
* The term “noise schedule” is overloaded: in the paper, it simultaneously means the log SNR term $\lambda_t$ itself (Line 149), the function $f_{\lambda}$ (Line 90), and the distribution $p(\lambda)$ (Line 510).
It’s clear to me that each “noise schedule” would result in a particular value of the variance ${\sigma_{\lambda}}^2$ at each timestep, but I’m not sure if such overloading would create any issue in the future, thusI’ll just point it out here.
* Line 179-180 the weighting function $w$ is simultaneously a function of $\lambda_t$ and of $t$.
The authors have discussed both limitations and potential negative social impact via Appendix H and I from Supplementary Material, which speak for the community well.
Yes, the authors addressed limitations, potential negative societal impact, and mitigation.
My main concern for this paper is the poor writing clarity.
Understandably, this paper contains a lot of information and thus writing is harder than usual.
But for someone new to this field like myself, I find it very hard to follow the big picture and also I find it hard to understand exactly what the authors did.
There are also grammar issues here and there, or maybe the grammar is technically correct but the style is unusual, making it hard to read.
For example: line 209 “we introduce using …” line 94 the logic of “instead” is not very straight forward.
line 79 “[27] who used” I think “who” here is redundant?
Lines 56-57: “one which … another which”.
Other than grammar issues, the overall writing is just not very clear and easy to follow, and it feels the paper was rushed and not polished.
This is the main reason for my rating of 4.
I think this paper is not yet ready to be circulated amoung the neurips community.
Yes, the authors have adequately addressed the limitations.
• The trojan tasks are fairly simplistic and might not measure the actually important capabilities needed by interpretability tools in the real world.
For example, if a tool performs well on this benchmark, it's not clear what that would tell me about how to use it in interpreting my model outputs for a misclassified, nonadversarial image.
The trojan task is a proxy, and I would have loved to see how the "best" models under this proxy can actually be used for a useful interpretability task like identifying why a model is misclassifying certain images.
I would have particularly liked to see how their proposed SNAFUE would work in a real interpretability task.
• I'm not sure the authors' evidence for the ineffectiveness of saliency maps is well-founded.
They use $\ell_1$ error between the saliency map and the location of true patch, which seems like a strange objective.
If the patch is small, the $\ell_1$ distance of a perfect saliency map would decrease with patch size, meaning an all-zeros baseline would appear great.
If you used a different metric like bounding box intersection you wouldn't get such a strong negative result.
*This isn't a huge deal* because this entire section seems not incredibly relevant to the paper, since your main goal is to do this task without access to the adversarial examples.
• It took me several reads to make sense of this paper.
The writing is not completely clear and the figures took a while to interpret correctly.
I would suggest really working on finding a better way to explain the human study task to your readers.
The authors have a healthy discussion about the limitations of their work.
They do not cover all possible types of features that may cause model failures.
Evaluations are based only on multiple choice questions, which may be sensitive to aspects of survey and experimental design
- Cappy is not compared to other parameter-efficient adaptation methods.
While there is some justification given, because other methods require storing forward activations and back-propagating through LLM parameters, it nevertheless makes judging the effectiveness of Cappy difficult.
- Moreover, Cappy’s improvements over a frozen LLM are comparatively small, e.g.
while Cappy improves Flan-T5 Large performance by ~7%, fine-tuning alone increases performance by ~22%.
It’s therefore unclear how significant Cappy’s benefit is without comparison to other adaptation methods.
- In the zero-shot experiments (4.1) it is claimed that the improved performance of Cappy over much larger LLMs can be attributed to Cappy’s scoring-based learning strategy.
However, T0 outperforms Cappy and T0 is significantly smaller than the OPT models; moreover, T0 is also trained on PromptSource only, similar to Cappy, and unlike the other LLMs.
Thus, it seems that at least some of Cappy’s performance benefits compared to other LLMs may arise from domain mismatch between training and test domains, rather than the proposed scoring function.
So while it saves computation on one end, it does slightly increase computation on another end, and exploring this trade-off would be useful.
Cappy itself is only a filter for in-domain responses and can not impact the intrinsic ability of a pre-trained LLM.
This method cannot handle tasks outside the LLM's expertise, emphasizing the need for a sufficiently general and powerful LLM.
Alternatively, fine-tuning LLMs, as shown in Table 3, may be necessary but costly.
By comparing able 2 and Table 3, fine-tuning is still very essential for task adaptation.
The concrete approaches proposed in Section 6 are also nice but leave something to be desired.
Perhaps it is my fault, but I have missed how one should choose the predictions mu_t and T_t.
From what I understand, both approaches in Sections 6.1 and 6.2 should give valid results irrespective of the choice of these parameters, but I still wonder how the choice will impact the quality of the guarantees.
The authors only suggest that choosing mu and T that "are good predictors of the (stochastic) reward r" will yield good results, but do not elaborate further.
For instance, is setting mu_t as the least squares estimator and T_t as the Grammian a good idea?
It feels somewhat unsatisfying to introduce all the possibilities for adaptivity and then simply set a constant lambda_t and go with the standard choice of mu and T...
Also, the confidence set proposed in Section 6.2 doesn't seem all that different from the standard tail bound popularized by Abbasi-Yadkori et al.
Accordingly, the regret bounds of Theorem 7.5 and 7.6 also take the same for as previous bounds, which is not unexpected given how the theorems are stated for rather generic choices of mu and T.
I can see that the new bounds *could* be tighter, but at the moment the theory does not reflect this, which is somewhat disappointing.
One additional thing that I would like to comment on is the computational complexity of the resulting method.
I understand that the UCB's obtained from the method are always convex in the feature representation of the actions (given how they are a maximum of linear functions).
Thus, calculating the action with maximal UCB is a convex maximization problem, which is NP-hard in general.
This is generally true for all UCB-like methods I can think of, so perhaps it is a bit odd to avoid discussing this question altogether in the paper and suggest that the gradient-based optimization scheme for finding the optimistic actions is a theoretically well-justified idea.
(It is not, but I understand that it often still works in practice.) I think it would be nice to add a comment on this in order to not mislead more casual readers who may not be familiar with this computational difficulty.
Despite all my criticism above, I am happy to support acceptance of this paper to the NeurIPS program.
I am looking forward to future literature addressing the current limitations of the approach proposed in this otherwise very nice paper.
#### **The following are the weaknesses of the paper:** 1.
Assumption of mixture distribution having Gaussian distributions: The regret bounds stated in the paper hold only when the mixture distribution is Gaussian.
It is unclear from the paper how practical this assumption is and what the consequences are (especially in analysis) if this assumption does not hold.
Linearity assumption: Assuming a linear relationship between the reward and action's features (in high dimensional space using a known feature map) restricts the applications of proposed methods.
Even though authors claim their tail bounds can be used to derive confidence sequences for non-linear reward functions, it is unclear what are the challenges of extending their work to non-linear reward functions (or kernelized bandits).
Unexplained notations: Many notations are not properly defined in the paper.
Line 145: What is $Z_t(f_t)$ connection with existing regret analysis (e.g., OFUL)?
Line 149: How are the parameters ($\boldsymbol{\mu}_t, \boldsymbol{T}_t$) of Gaussian distribution computed?
In Theorem 7.5: what is the regret upper bound in terms of $T$?
Line 234: How to set the value of $c$?
\ v: Line 248: What is $\sigma_0$ and how to set its value?
I have raised a few limitations of the paper in my response to the ***Weaknesses**.
Since the paper is a theoretical contribution to linear bandits literature, I do not find any potential negative societal impact of this work.
I don't believe the paper has any significant weaknesses.
One could argue that it has, perhaps, limited scope: but bandits and adaptive regression/design are very popular topics nowadays, and this is an interesting read for many people interested in those.
One issue I feel strongly about, but that can be easily addressed: you advertise that your confidence intervals are robust to misspecification (abstract, line 12).
I was very disappointed to see, when I got to section 8.1 and particularly lines 282-289, that you mean misspecification to a prior in a Bayesian setting.
The general setting of your work is frequentist, and in the frequentist setting, misspecification has a well understood meaning which, of course, does not coincide with that which you show.
It is unclear that your method is any better in this respect than the standard concentration inequality used in OFUL (Yasin's original work); and indeed, that's a generous interpretation: it is generally accepted that bounds derived under frequentist assumptions work well in a misspecified Bayesian setting.
Please remove this claim from your abstract.
Another issue is that your plots are unreadable when printed in grayscale (all lines look the same).
I'm reviewing a grayscale printed version of this paper, so cannot asses empirical performance from plots.
Fortunately for you, I also happen to care little for empirical results.
I have some minor feedback, solely for the purpose of improving the manuscript: -High level: please reiterate in the introduction, e.g.
on line 44, that your UCBs are tighter in an empirical sense; that you have not (to my understanding) shown them to be tighter in a theoretical sense.
Your results are neat: by risking the perception that you might be overclaiming/misleading you'd be doing yourself a disservice.
-High level: your method is highly related to the rather excellent paper -Line 65: the result you cite Chowdhury & Gopalan 2017 for is implied directly by theorem 4.1 in Yasin Abbasi-Yadkori's PhD thesis (2012); that the result of Chowdhury & Gopalan was novel is an error in the literature that ought not be propagated.
-Lines 97-98, you state that $\mathcal{H}_t$-measurability equates to 'can be calculated using the data available just after reward $r_t$ is revealed'.
From the rest of the paper, I know that you know that this isn't true.
It may seem like a nice simplifying explanation, but its misleading, and often inexperienced authors make a mess of things because they take that to be the definition.
Indeed, in your setting, the event $\{ \theta^\star \in \Theta_t\}$ is $\mathcal{H}_t$ measurable (assuming $\Theta_t$ is a closed set, see next comment), since $\theta^\star$ is a constant and $\Theta_t$ is a measurable random set.
But $\theta^\star$ is explicitly unknown at the end of the $t$th iteration, and so the indicator of $\theta^\star \in \Theta_t$ _cannot_ be computed with the information available at that point.
Please remove that statement, and if you feel the reader might need a primer on measurability, please include a reference to any standard measure/probability textbook.
-Lines 95 to 100: you define what are effectively random sets with a certain property.
One has to be careful around the definitions of random sets to ensure they behave in a way that one would expect.
For example, we'd usually like that for a random set $A'$ subset of $A$, for any $a \in A$, the event $\{a \in A'\}$ is measurable.
Your sets are closed and you work on a Polish space, so this is true; but I would point out that this is so (and indeed, you might run into trouble if the confidence sets were open).
See Molchanov, Ilya: Theory of Random Sets.
Proposition 1.1.2; that should be all you need.
-Eq (5), I would point out that this is just the 2-norm of $\epsilon_t$; this makes it much clearer, for example, where your naive bound of line 158 comes from.
-On your assumptions 7.1-7.4: It seems to me that 7.2+7.3 together imply a bound of the form asked for in 7.4; is there a good reason you have a separate assumption 7.4?
PS: I have not read the appendix.
I am confident from the sketches in the main text that the result claimed goes through.
Some aspects of the writing could be thought to overclaim, specifically when it comes to robustness to misspecification.
I feel strongly that this ought to be addressed.
But this is also easily fixable; I hope the authors do so.
(1) The paper overstates its performance by claiming that "STEVE-1 can follow nearly **any short-horizon** open-ended text and visual task in Minecraft." To verify this, I downloaded the provided code and ran the attached checkpoints on some basic short-horizon tasks like "kill sheep", "kill cow", and "kill pig".
Before testing these tasks, I had already summoned 10 "pigs", "cows", and "sheep" nearby.
While I found that the agent actually killed some animals, it did not seem aware of which particular animal it was targeting.
The behavior was more like "kill cow if there is a cow" rather than following the specific instruction.
I tried several other prompt variants such as "hunt cow" and "hunt cow in Minecraft", but they were unsuccessful.
Additionally, I tested STEVE-1 on some short-horizon crafting tasks with sufficient materials in the initial inventory, like "craft stick", "craft oak plank", and "craft torch".
The agent merely opened its inventory and then acted randomly.
Given these observations, I do not believe that STEVE-1 has solved all short-horizon tasks, as it cannot even differentiate between "cows" and "sheep".
This could lead others to misconstrue the extent of the research in the Minecraft environment.
(2) This paper lacks generalization experiments on unseen text instructions.
As the primary aim of this method is to support open-ended text instructions in STEVE-1, it is crucial to demonstrate its performance on unseen text instructions.
The authors collected approximately 10,000 instruction-trajectory pairs, with 2,000 of them hand-labeled and an additional 8,000 instructions generated by GPT.
It remains unclear whether the tasks ("dig dirt", "build a tower", "make wooden planks") in the experiments were already included in these instructions.
If so, the experiments may not be particularly convincing, as neural networks can easily map the text instructions to corresponding visual embeddings in the training set.
That is, pre-training STEVE-1 on visual instructions already achieves this goal and the later generative model training may be not important, which is not impressive.
So, I strongly recommend including generalization experiments if the paper wants to show support for open-ended text instructions.
(3) The evaluation metric is insufficient.
The MineCLIP evaluation metric is not convincingly effective in measuring whether a trajectory corresponds to a given task.
This is because the MineCLIP latent space cannot distinguish some trajectories well.
For instance, we have found that it was unable to differentiate between two trajectories where one involved approaching a tree and the other involved moving away from it (MineCLIP was not sensitive to distance).
To address this issue, I recommend that the paper incorporates a success-rate-based confusion matrix, in which the values in Figure 3 (b) are replaced with the task success rate, conditioned on the given instruction.
The main limitations include (1) prompt design being too sensitive and (2) chain-of-thought prompting is not automated.
The authors have adequately stated the limitations.
This method is not applicable for long-horizon tasks in the open world.
For example, in Minecraft, if the goal is obtaining a diamond, the instruction may be too difficult for the proposed method since it is not trained for long-horizon trajectories.
Regarding this, it is not sure if this method can be applied to challenging tasks in the open world which may contain extremely long planning steps.
In this paper, no complicated tasks like obtaining diamond are studied.
Thus I am concerned the scalability of the proposed method to much complicated tasks.
The limitation is adequately addressed in the paper.
No discussion about negative social impact.
The authors chose a very simple synthetic dataset to study this problem.
The dataset has only 3 attributes.
Even though some of the observations make sense, we have no guarantees that any of the results will extend to the real world.
The figures are quite confusing.
Blue (albeit a different shade), was used as an attribute and to denote the training data.
In Section 4, the authors used a bit of sensationalist language, such as “sudden emergence” etc, while such terms are not defined nor appropriately cited.
They can improve the writing in this section.
- Please edit line 181 in the manuscript.
Some part of the line is omitted by figure 4.
- This paper focuses on solving one important but rather niche problem.
I am not an expert in the application area (electronic structures), but it seems like there could have been more extensive experiments to illustrate the benefits of the method.
I don't think sec 4.1 gives a good enough picture of the benefits of the new method.
Also, the algorithm boxes on page 4 and 5 are slightly confusing and figure 4 is misplaced and is covering up some text it seems (at least in my printed version).
The limitations are adequately addressed.
My main critique is that, as presented, the contribution of this paper appears not as much to machine learning or data science, rather to computational science.
* The informal statement of Theorem 1 in the main text is too vague in my opinion.
In particular, it's not stated what the regime of $n$ is and how these other quantities interact with it.
* The graphs are tough to read (too small) and the legends overlap with the plots.
The authors adequately addressed the limitations.
-Although MARG-CTRL is shown to perform well across different tasks, it is not clear how MARG-CTRL perform in scenarios where the shortcut features and the stable features are highly correlated.
-The paper compares MARG-CTRL with two-stage shortcut-mitigating methods like JTT and CNC, it would be helpful to understand the specific scenarios where MARG-CTRL outperforms these methods and where it does not.
Please see the weaknesses part.
* I find the scatter approach to testing many margin based losses a little un elegant, I would rather know which is the most effective in the paper and then see the results for other attempted losses in the Appendix.
But this is just me preference.
* Is Corollary one explicitly followed up with an experiment?
I would like to know if it actually exhibits this behaviour or is there just the potential to?
* The experimental datasets are rather limited, Waterbirds, CelebA, Wilds etc.
Not a negative per se, but it would be nice to see authors trying to improve the testing framework for this probelm.
Analysis is limited to simple tasks consisting of simple relations.
It remains to be seen if the results would hold up for more tasks involving higher order relations and more complicated relations.
The paper doesn’t give a clear and detailed intuition behind why CLIP pretrained ViTs implement the two stage processing more strongly compared to other pretrained ViT models.
The authors have discussed the limitations in the last section.
- Focus on more toy settings.
Lack evaluation on more advanced/real world tasks.
- While the central claim of dividing ViT perception into perception and relation stage is inspired by infant and animal abstract concept (line 71), there's the risk of confirmation bias from this analogy.
- Plots in the paper requires clearer annotations and explanations (e.g.
The author doesn't discuss limitations (although the paper checklist claims that limitations are discussed in Section 8).
I believe readers in this track would generally not be experts in concepts of the proposed area of studies, the paper should include more literature review for context upfront.
I find the writing and the flow of the paper hard to follow, maybe adding flow-chart would help improve readability.
The dataset is not well-discussed.
I think there is a slight mismatch between claimed study and experiments.
The title suggest the study centers around ViTs but use CLIP ViTs, leaving me confused if the points made are the same on the original ViTs.
- Related work is poorly presented: Despite the vast literature on both the question and the methodology, only one paragraph was allocated to the related work.
There are other works suggesting a two phase processing in transformers (see below for an example) which I think discussing them in the context of this work would help to put the relational reasoning in a broader context.
- Maybe related to point one, but a theoretical explanation supporting the findings, that is, under what conditions these distinct phases appear would make the work stronger.
@misc{cui2024, title={A phase transition between positional and semantic learning in a solvable model of dot-product attention}, author={Hugo Cui and Freya Behrens and Florent Krzakala and Lenka Zdeborová}, year={2024}, url={ }
- Related work section is very limited.
- Claims on ViT seem to confined to CLIP, so probably a slight revision of the title and text makes the basis of the claim stronger.
- This paper shares a close connection to [1] regarding its motivation: formulating fairness as a constrained distributional optimization.
Both of them employs a methodology based on primal-dual optimization derived from Lagrangian duality to address the constraints.
While [1] focuses on the constrained SVGD, this paper focuses on constrained diffusion models.
The paper can be improved by: - a discussion of the efficiency of the proposed constrained diffusion models should be included.
- a discussion of how the proposed method differs from existing constrained generative models should be added.
There are several weaknesses (and questions): (1) The problem (U-KL) is still abstract.
It is not clear how to choose $b_i$ to represent desired properties, or what are the right interpretations of the KL constraints (e.g., Section 3.2 on the fairness).
(2) Theorem 7: the authors may emphasize that Theorem 7 is valid under the assumption that the initial distribution is a mixture.
Also I think DDPM is used.
The authors may also compare Theorem 7 with the results in [28].
(3) Experiments: the authors consider MNIST, CIFAR 10 and Celeb-A.
However, the FID obtained seems to be large compared to the existing results.
For instance, for MNIST the FID is typically less than 1 while the paper reports ~20-40; for CIFAR 10 the FID is less than 3 (the best is around 1.8) while the paper reports ~50.
The authors may explain why this happens, otherwise the experiment results are not so convincing.
(4) Literature and comments: There have also been a line of work on the SDE-based diffusion models (see ref.
a), which show good empirical results.
reports the FID 1.8 for CIFAR 10, and ref c.
reports the FID 0.8 for MNIST (both without constraints).
The authors may refer to these results on the continuous-time (SDE-based) models, and explain why there is so large difference in the empirical results.
Another suggestion is that the authors may consider fine-tuning in the continuous framework, as in [45] and ref d.
Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations, Song et al., arXiv:2011.13456.
Elucidating the Design Space of Diffusion-Based Generative Models, Karras, Aittala, Aila and Laine, arXiv:2206.00364.
Contractive Diffusion Probabilistic Models, Tang and Zhao, arXiv:2401.13115.
Fine-tuning of diffusion models via stochastic control: entropy regularization and beyond, Tang, arXiv:2403.06279.
I would be happy to raise the score if some (or all) of the above concerns are addressed.
There are many methods that can attempt to do so if data exists
The novelty of learning group action in latent space is not so strong, as the operation on latent space is not rare in lots of other tasks, such as disentangle different factors in generation model.
The reason of framework building is not well explained in section 3.3.
It is easy to understand directly sending high resolution to the decoder help to keep image details.
However, the reason of applying attention operation to the skip connection is not explained, which is also not included in the ablation study.
The ablation study results will be more convincible if the qualitative results with/without different parts are compared.
For example, LPIPS is helpful for image rendering.
Without LPIPS, are the numbers rotated correctly (even the image may not be as clear as the full model)?
Or is the model able to separate the numbers and the blocks without LIPIS?
These are not revealed from the quantitative results but can be easily demonstrated by the visualizations.
Limitations are discussed in conclusion section.
The explanation of the method is too limited.
Only a very small portion of the paper is dedicated to the Model/Method section, which makes it difficult to understand the fundamental algorithm of NER.
It is also reasonable to suspect the main method of the paper is the application of the existing method RNC, which limits the contribution of the paper.
It is empirically evident that the method works well in the setting of the paper, but there is limited discussion on what could be the cause of such an improvement over other methods (such as CEBRA), which by the formulation of the loss function, is very similar in nature.
As the authors have discussed in the Limitations section, it would also be interesting to consider beyond the asymptomatic setting and end tail property.
Some typos: - It has been discussed in 4.3 that $\mathcal{R}$ is $\beta\sigma_{\textrm{max}}^2(X)$-smooth, and the learning rate should be $\eta<\frac{2}{\beta\sigma_{\textrm{max}}^2(X)}$, but the upper bound is stated as $2\beta^{-1}\sigma_{\textrm{max}}^2(X)$ in the statement of Theorem 3.4.
- In page 3 line 85, the meaning of $[\textbf{v}]\sigma(j)$ doesn’t seem clear to me, is it $[\textbf{v}]_{\sigma(j)}$?
- Line 116: from direct calculation ${{\Upsilon}_y}\textbf{Dv}$ is not $(v_y-v_1,v_y-v_2,\cdots,v_y-v_K)^T$ but its permutation.
Although this difference should have no influence in the proofs under PERM loss assumptions, it could still be a bit misleading.
- Line 200: in the RHS of the equation, $\left\|\hat{\textbf{w}}\right\|$ should be $\|\hat{\textbf{w}}\|^2t^{-2}$ - Line 219: $\hat{\textrm{w}}^T\mathcal{R}(\textbf{w})$ should be $\hat{\textrm{w}}^T\nabla\mathcal{R}(\textbf{w})$
The main weakness is the lack of numerical results to verify the theoretical claims.
While this is understandable given that the convergence is exponentially slow, some simulations could be presented to illustrate the gap between theory and practice (where networks are not trained to achieve zero loss).
The main weakness of the paper in my opinion is the difficulty to understand several technical steps of the proof due to the lack of details/explanations.
This is a general comment but I have several specific questions in the "Questions" section about steps that I did not understand and made me question the overall soundness of the proof.
I would be happy to have answers from the authors about these questions.
Other comments: - Line 193: Lemma 12 in the other paper does not directly give the result, one needs to browse to Eq 18 to complete the argument.
20: $\eta$ missing somewhere.
The authors acknowledge correctly the limitations of their work.
However, a small discussion somewhere in the paper of how restrictive the assumptions on the loss function are would be welcome.
The method falls into the category of the perpetual data machine, in which one uses LLMs to generate its own training dataset.
In addition, the proposed method is similar to self-refine paper ( in which LLMs iteratively fine-tune itself based on the generated dataset.
Table 1 does not compare the proposed method to the existing methods that use their own dataset to fine-tune such as self-refine paper.
For instance, the paper could add a baseline in which the model is fine-tuned based on the other iterative fine-tuned procedure on the same dataset used in the paper.
This will further verify the proposed method
My main concerns are weak baselines and lack of some others.
There are many baselines missing from the comparison and available baselines are weak.
For example, HTML-T5 [11] achieves 49.7 and MindAct [6] achieves 30.9 on Mind2Web dataset.
Performance on Miniwob++ reaches up to 99.2% [A].
There are many other baselines including prompting and fine-tuning based ones with different pre-training that should be included.
Can you further fine-tune on demonstrations from available benchmarks?
While a semi-supervised approach is helpful, how much does it improve when human demonstrations added?
You also mentioned that a unique "id" is assigned to target elements in your training demonstrations.
Given that the actions condition on the current state, what prevents the model from overfitting to this unique id when detecting salient elements?
You mention that you use viewports in Mind2Web benchmark to fit into the context window.
But to extract viewports, you need to know where the ground truth element resides in the DOM (or accessibility tree) or you assume you have access to an oracle scrolling agent.
I think both cases are different from your baselines and suggests leakage of test data.
When you use NL format rather than programs, how do you ground generated actions to executable environment actions?
What is the performance of the model trained with Mind2Web demonstrations on Mind2Web test sets?
When tested on other benchmarks, how do you ground the action on the particular benchmark?
It is not clear if the claim that collected demonstrations have a similar distribution as Mind2Web as they have fatter tails.
Text and legend in Figure-2 are not readable.
Longtao Zheng, Rundong Wang, and Bo An.
Synapse: Leveraging few-shot exemplars for human level computer control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.07863, 2023.
Limitations of the work are addressed.
- Requires the use of GPT-4 to generate the synthetic data.
While the paper demonstrates that using GPT-4 to generate training data can improve smaller open weight models, it's not clear if this can help push the SOTA.
- Unequal comparison with human annotation: Sec.
6.2 compares with the human annotated trajectories in Mind2Web.
As acknowledged by the authors, Mind2Web tasks are very restricted and simple compared with the tasks in synatra.
A fairer comparison would be to collect a smaller set of human annotations on roughly the same task distribution as synatra.
- Broader impacts adequately discusses potential unethical usage of LLM agents enabled by this work.
- Needs discussion of robustness of LLM agents and potential security risks posed by deploying them.
- Limitations of using synthetic data adequately discussed.
The paper attempts to generalize the assumption of Gaussianity but is limited to the linear model, which is inherently restrictive.
Furthermore, it focuses exclusively on a specific algorithm—SGD initialized at the model pre-trained on the source data—without demonstrating the optimality of these results or determining whether better results are achievable with alternative algorithms.
The paper does not have any potential negative societal impact.
My score would increase if the following weaknesses were addressed: - The hypothesis that VLMs learn a compositional representation for generalization purposes could benefit from a reference if possible, since the discussion depends on that hypothesis.
- Despite conducting various types of experiments (four in total), each individual experiment lacks sufficient variability.
For instance, in the counting experiment, although they vary the colors of the circles, they do not vary their sizes or shapes.
Another example, for the poppout task it would have been nice to also alternate the color of target and distractors.
- The authors carried out the experiment on a very small group of language models (two).
Some typos: - Figure 1, top right: the x-axis should be integers in the plot of GPT-4v counting performance - Line 156, 188: should be ‘Figure 2’ and not ‘Figure 1’
The paper leaves out some important information.
For each task, the authors prompted GPT-4v to describe the input images, but as far as I can tell, they did not give any evaluation of how well GPT-4v was able to describe them.
Other work (e.g., has shown that GPT-4v has trouble describing such synthetic images and often will hallucinate.
Here, the authors should include the results on how well GPT-4v can even parse what is in the images (including shapes, colors, etc.) and the authors should assess whether that failure to describe simple images is related to its failure on these tasks.
To what extent are the failures a matter of lack of binding features, or of missing or hallucinating features?
A couple of typos/corrections: In Section 3, "Figure 1" should be "Figure 2".
In the caption for Figure 2, "blue column" should be "red column" and "red column" should be "blue column".
The authors do a good job of discussing limitations.
I have brought it up in the questions sections.
The paper is well structured and investigates an interesting (albeit a bit constrained) question concerning VLMs object reasoning abilities.
While some of the conclusions seem overstated to me, I nonetheless recommend accept, since the authors present novel findings that improve the research community's understanding of VLMs visual reasoning abilities.
While the paper provides a promising theoretical foundation, the polynomial factors in the sample complexity and runtime may still be too high for immediate practical deployment, as acknowledged by the authors.
Further work may be needed to obtain more practical parameter dependencies.
This paper does not sufficiently discuss how it fits into the broader field of matrix completion algorithms with practical implementation.
For example, [1] considers the matrix completion problem via robust alternating minimization, which can tolerate errors caused by approximate updates.
Both papers consider the practical implementation of the matrix completion algorithm.
What are some similarities and differences between these two (or some other related) matrix completion papers?
The paper focuses on the theoretical algorithm and analysis but does not include empirical evaluation of real-world datasets.
Experimental validation of the robustness and efficiency benefits would strengthen the claims.
[1] Yuzhou Gu, Zhao Song, Junze Yin, and Lichen Zhang.
“Low rank matrix completion via robust alternating minimization in nearly linear time.” ICLR 2024.
As mentioned by the authors, the main limitation is “the modeling assumptions and runtimes of the algorithms may not be practical yet”.
Other than that, I do not find obvious limitations.
The rank of the matrix that's output can be $poly(r)$ than the ground truth.
Since this paper seems mostly concerned with $r \ll d$ and independent of $d$, this is morally not a big deal.
Also, what is the polynomial?
I did some very cursory searching but didn't find it explicitly written down (all I see is that it's bigger than $r^6$).
The error depends on the largest entry of the noise -- this might be a bit pessimistic (e.g.
if the noise matrix has just one nonzero entry, but the corresponding index isn't revealed to the learner, then this shouldn't affect anything).
The authors explicitly mention getting a more "optimistic" dependence on the noise as an interesting open direction for future work.
It is concerning to use neural networks to explaining the predictive behaviour of another machine learning model.
In fact, how do we know whether the explanation itself is trustworthy?
If the prediction explanation is given to an stakeholders, is it possible to distinguish the potential concern between target machine learning model's trustworthiness and the approximative explainer?
This concern needs to be addressed further to let the proposed approach practically useful.
Partial experimental results show the proposed model may not be a good approximation approach; the results can be interpreted as the approximation fails to provide correct explanation to feature importance (Section 5.1).
It causes me wonder if there is a practical value for the proposed approach if it is fast but not accurate.
But, as the proposed approach is about XAI, it should be sound in terms of improving the trustworthiness of prediction instead of introducing another layer of uncertainty.
While the concept of amortization for Shapley value prediction is not entirely new, this paper makes a good contribution through its use of noisy labels and the accompanying theoretical analysis.
I don't find any major weaknesses that would significantly detract from the paper's value, and I recommend acceptance.
Reflecting my limited familiarity with some aspects of the relevant literature, I set my confidence to 3.
The authors adequately addressed the limitations of the proposed approach.
The attacker controls the whole training process and can embed the backdoor at the computational graph level, while knowing the model exactly.
It is unclear how this is different from architectural backdoors, besides the implementation of SHA-256, and whether the evaluated techniques are convincing enough - e.g., why is not fine-tuning considered as well.
The authors have identified limitations of their work.
- I am dubious of the claim that this work presents the "first white-box unelicitable backdoor construction".
It seems [1] is also unelicitable in similar conditions, both because the trigger is NP-complete and because the backdoor does not exist in the weights or high level architecture.
Perhaps the authors should be more specific with this claim.
- The trigger mechanism of the NP-Complete Backdoor is very similar to the mechanism in [1], although it is more generally stated.
Perhaps [1] should be cited.
- It is unclear how large of a footprint the SHA-256 hash function has, though it is hinted to be large.
Would such a large footprint not make for a reasonably detectable backdoor?
I understand that obfuscation is (quite rightly) left for future work, but I don't see that obfuscation could make the footprint significantly smaller; and a backdoor that adds significant size to the model is suspicious even without looking in detail at the architecture.
2022, ImpNet: Imperceptible and blackbox-undetectable backdoors in compiled neural networks
Negative societal impact is minimal.
- Lack of qualitative examples to more intuitively understand implications of what the backdoors can do and when they might be useful - Not addressing fully robustness against mitigation methods (the paper mostly focused on elicitation) - Lack more variety of evaluations (e.g.
impact to model behavior, robustness against mitigations)
The paper discusses limitation in section 6.2 on potential mitigation to the proposed attack.
Several repeated words and sentences appear, such as "if if" in line 7, and redundancy between lines 65 to 74.
The threat model is unrealistic, as most commercial models only provide APIs, making it impossible for the authors to insert compiled transformer modules.
Although the authors propose an encrypted backdoor with an unfeasible trigger, the backdoored behaviors can be mitigated through model fine-tuning.
Experimental results on encrypted backdoor robustness are lacking, including defense effects such as fine-tuning or pruning.
I do not have any major apprehensions, except for the related work, which I think is relatively sparse.
- **Related Work.** At this point, the topic this paper is focused on has a rather rich literature and I think a more detailed related work is warranted (perhaps in the appendix if space is an issue).
For example, the results by Kirsch et al.
(which is cited) are very similar to what authors show, especially results on scaling effects.
The main different is width scaling in that paper and no geometric analysis, but nonetheless the relationship warranted more emphasis and discussion.
Similarly, several recent works have explored OOD generalization of toy ICL tasks defined in prior works (e.g., see Ahuja and Lopez-Paz [1] for work on linear regression tasks and Ramesh et al.
[2] for group arithmetic tasks).
Regarding grokking, there are several works exploring the phase transition-y nature of this task.
For example, see Kumar et al.
The transient nature of ICL also has negative results (see Reddy [4]), which are worth discussion since they are the primary conclusion in depth scaling as I see it.
Limitations are fairly discussed.
- The definition of task diversity is not well defined.
Is the number of pretraining tasks truly indicative of task diversity?
I think the paper could benefit from some justification of this assumption.
- The paper claims that for larger models, early stopping is necessary (line 52).
While I appreciate that the authors used GPT-like architectures to reflect realistic settings, the architectures in the experiments are not that large.
Even amongst popular open source models, the smallest are usually around 7B parameters.
- Many works in the continual learning and meta learning literature suggest that training on multiple tasks at once leads to better generalization.
Perhaps it is worth including brief discussion on the connections between this point and the model’s ability to generalize ood which is predominantly determined by the number of pre-training tasks.
As acknowledged by the authors, this work is limited to particular algorithmic datasets.
I have not noticed any weaknesses in the paper that would temper my overall recommendation to accept.
However, I note the following weaknesses, some of which the authors have already acknowledged, and others which they may like to take into consideration if they are interested to improve the paper further.
**Delicate training set-up.** The authors explain that training transformers on multiple modular addition tasks crucially relies on following a delicately balanced batch construction methodology.
I am left wondering if this batch construction methodology, as a further departure from the standard language modelling setting, has any other implications for the learning process that may affect the generality of the results.
Note: This weakness is not decisive because the authors clearly document their training methodology and it's not *that* artificial anyway.
**The mechanistic analysis is only partial.** The authors admit that they have not been able to identify an end-to-end mechanistic model of how the trained transformers perform the task.
This leaves their posited skill decomposition and partial mechanistic analysis open to the possibility that they are incomplete.
Note: I think the contribution the authors have given in terms of the setting, the generalisation phenomena, and the partial skill decomposition and mechanistic analysis are already significant.
**Relationship to prior work.** The related work section does a good job of summarising the contributions of prior work in in-context linear regression and modular arithmetic in the context of transformer models.
However, I feel that this section could be improved if the authors attempted to offer greater insight into the relationship between these prior works and the present work.
For example, the authors have an opportunity here to informally describe the in-context linear regression and the modular addition problem settings that the newly proposed setting generalises.
I noticed some minor text errors as follows, which I expect the authors can easily correct.
* Line 94: The notation $[1, p^2]$ to me suggests a closed continuous interval, whereas you appear to mean $\lbrace1, \ldots, p^2\rbrace$, also in some cases denoted $[p^2]$.
* It seems that equation 2 should read $\ldots = (z_1^t, z_2^2) \mod p$ and the equation on line 203 should read $c_1x + c_2y \mod p$.
That is, $x$ and $y$ should swap places with $z_1^t$ and $z_2^t$.
Is this indeed a mistake, or am I missing something?
* In figure 6 (top row) there is a typo: "Qeury" on the vertical axis.
* In line 445 there is a broken link.
I have not studied all appendices in detail.
The authors transparently acknowledge all of the limitations I was able to identify within the paper itself.
- The emergent ability (or grokking) usually refers to a phenomenon in the model “got stuck” in a non-generalization region and suddenly gained the generalization ability.
Hence some discussion about the learning dynamics, i.e., how the accuracy, loss, representation, ability, attention pattern, etc., gradually evolve during training would make the paper stronger.
- The task and batch sample selection in this paper have many constraints (e.g., the rectangular rule, the balanced number of samples in each batch, etc.).
However, the practical systems usually cannot strictly satisfy all these assumptions.
Hence a more detailed analysis of how these assumptions influence the generalization ability would provide more insights to practical systems.
Discussions on how the findings help the practical system.
This paper aim to study the "fundamental properties of fine-tuning" but focused on ConvNext only and didn't experiment with another popular pre-trained model family such as ViTs.
The paper keeps reiterating the "nuanced", however, I believe the those nuances are general prior beliefs, I would hope the authors can provide some ablations to clarify those nuances and potentially provide clear guidelines, since all methods have nuances.
The findings of this paper have some dependencies, the success cases seem to depend on a specific or "appropriate" setup to work.
The datasets the authors use has group labels in training set, the authors should at least study the how maybe other training paradigms such as GroupDRO, etc., fare in the authors setting and proposed method, otherwise I believe the scope would be relatively narrow.
The datasets used are binary or trinary.
In a more realistic setting multi-class setting, the nuances should be discussed.
In 3.2, the authors overclaim the strengths of their proposed method and their investigation of prior work in this section is spotty.
The authors mention [1] as prior work; however, Deep Feature Reweighting, the main method explored in [1], requires group labels, so it is unclear what aspect of this work they are referencing.
The authors do not address Automatic Feature Reweighting [2] in this section, which resolves spurious correlations using a weighted loss on a held-out dataset drawn simply from the training distribution.
[2] retrains the last layer only, with weights prioritizing datapoints on which the base model performs poorly.
The authors cannot and do not claim superiority without comparisons to existing work; however, it would still be extremely informative to see how their mixture balancing method compares to that of [2].
It would be helpful to have a section describing the motivation for why the authors chose to focus on subsetting and oversampling so heavily in the first section of the paper, included a section on spectral imbalance, but did not deeply investigate [3], which is also cited.
The authors have adequately addressed the limitations and potential negative societal impact of their work.
Limited empirical Evidence: Although the benchmark datasets are taken from prior work (Idrissi et.
al) and indeed popular, most of the claims are substantiated by experiments on only three settings, in which the two baseline methods show a different behaviour.
The claim that their method works better on a wider range of settings (without hyperparameter tuning) could be supported by more empirical evidence.
Relevance of the Feature Spectral Analysis: Although it is interesting and informative/insightful, there is no discussion on how the spectral features change between the proposed method and baseline methods (subsetting/upsampling) - i.e.
, how the balanced is achieved.
Thus it seems unrelated to the discussion about the proposed method.
Ratio ablation and choice: There is not much discussion about the choice of mixture ratio (again this is important because there is emphasis in this method performing well *without* hyperparameter tuning).
The ratio ablation included in the supplementary (figure 7) only includes two values per dataset (apart from the baselines).
The two values shown do have similar performance so if this holds with more points, this could better illustrate the robustness of the method w.r.t this hyperparameter.
Limitations are nicely discussed.
It would be cool if the authors could comment on how SFL might be generalized to continuous outcomes and stochastic environments.
- Section 4.1 analyses MaxMC and PVL, popular UED score functions, in terms of their predictiveness of learnability.
However, there is no demonstration of a similar analysis for SFL.
Although SFL's scoring function is intuitive and it is not as challenging to guess what the scoring would look like, including such an illustrative comparison would support the claims in this paper.
- The empirical results according to the proposed evaluation protocol for robustness (Figures 3a, 5a, and 7a) show that SFL outperforms the rest of the evaluated methods for alpha < 1 (100%).
However, except in the multi-agent case (Fig 5a), the expected success rates indicate marginal or no improvement.
In MiniGrid, the difference between DR and SFL drops quickly as alpha gets above 0.1 (10%).
This is likely due to SFL not doing so well in easier levels compared to other baselines.
Although this is expected, as the proposed metric results in upsampling learnable environments, not easy ones, I suggest a comparison of results in easy levels to conclude whether this is the case or not.
- The major limitation of the proposed approach is the rollouts needed to compute the learnability score of randomly sampled levels.
Section 4.2 indicates that 5000 levels are sampled, and n-step rollouts, where n is not specified, are generated to compute the scores.
It would be more informative if the amount of computation and time spent in this phase were reported (in comparison to the usual curriculum learning task sampling phase).
In addition, I wonder how SFL is one of the fastest in the single agent nav environment, as reported in Table 4 in Appendix F, despite having this additional phase.
Lack of quantitive comparison with other methods for MRI reconstruction.
The paper should highlight the technical contribution, as most of the context of the methods is from the existing works.
The paper claims the contribution on 3D and dynamic MRI, but expects more such results, not just for 2D images.
The paper deals with 3D reconstruction but the results only show 2D slices.
It is not clear the consistency from other views like Coronal and Sagittal views.
The method lacks novelty as diffusion models are commonly used in MRI acceleration tasks 2.
The method is more like for normal images but not for medical images like MRI; For medical studies, we care more about he anatomy plausibility while the image metrics, like MSE, may not be a good measurement for this purpose; 3.
3D medical images are not videos; we care more about the structure consistency from any of the three views.
The claim that the authors have shown empirically that η is nearly constant regardless of hparams or architectures is overbroad for the provided evidence; the authors should consider scoping their empirical claims more modestly, in keeping with the small scale experiments in this paper.
The phrase "a distribution over a parametric family hθ , e.g., a distribution of classifiers that is trained from a neural network or a random forest", could be misinterpreted as a claim that random forests are parametric models 3.
Equation (6) appears to have a formatting error, there's a long underscore under one half of the equation 4.
Conjecture 1 uses the term *interpolating* neural networks; however, this term is not defined in Sec.
2 and is overloaded in the literature.
Please provide a definition in Sec.
2 or a relevant citation.
"Since the denominator ...
is invariant to the number of classifiers and the numerator resembles the disagreement between classifiers, δ is expected to follow a similar pattern": this point could use more clarification
The conjecture of the neural polarity is somewhat lacking in evidence given the generality of the statement.
While Figure 1 provides some empirical evidence for a variety of models and hyperparameters, only the relatively simple CIFAR-10 dataset is considered.
It would be interesting to see if the neural polarity law still holds for more challenging tasks, where the performance of each individual classifier would be lower.
I also feel that some parts of the paper could be improved for clarity.
In particular, in Section 5 it is somewhat unclear how all the results fit together, which can detract from their potential significance.
See some of the questions below.
Some of the terms used in the paper could use additional descriptions.
For example, I don’t see the description of “interpolation” or “interpolating models” anywhere.
Considering that it is important in interpreting Figure 1 and also determining when the conjectured polarity upper bound is likely to hold, I would suggest spending a paragraph on prior work around interpolation.
Related to the above point, some more details around the Remark in Lines 139-145 would be helpful.
It looks like for the non-constant term in the maximum of Thm 1, the numerator and denominator are empirical approximations of the numerator and denominator of $\eta$.
Given that, could these converge to $\eta$ itself as $m \rightarrow \infty$?
And if so, isn’t it possible for the Conjecture 1 to be violated as even values of $\eta > 4/3$ could satisfy the condition in Theorem 1?
Let me know if I am misinterpreting something here.
More details of empirical analysis would be good to include in the main body.
For instance, details about number of classifiers in each ensemble and whether the classifiers only differed in starting points (or other parameters as well) would be good to know while reading the figures themselves
Some limitations discussed in the conclusion section.
**Wiring vs plasticity**: It seems like an assumption of this work is that the sequence generating structure of HVC neural circuits emerges largely due to activity-dependent plasticity in a network with initially random connectivity.
What is the role of activity-independent wiring that takes place during development?
And how much of an effect does more structured initialization have on the discovered plasticity rules?
**HVC predictions**: As a main contribution of this work is improving a model of HVC, what experimental predictions will result from this computational analysis?
**Figures improvements**: The figures in general have pretty small text, inconsistency in formatting, and subpanels that are cramped.
Fig 1 especially has a lot going on, uses a variety of fonts, and adopts a colorblind-unfriendly palette.
Fig 2c, I didn't see why the 3 trials were needed; could it just show one and put other trials into the Supplementary?
Fig 4d, use 45deg or 90deg xlabel angles instead?
**Text improvements** (minor): (1) The neuron model notation on Line 77 took me a while to parse and seems non-standard according to colleagues; ultimately, it is a simple exponential decay and such neural dynamics are usually expressed in dv/dt notation.
(2) The spacing on Page 11 is messed up due to the type of latex linebreak used.
Yes, the authors adequately address the limitations in the Discussion section.
The manuscript occasionally feels unfinished and rushed, particularly in section 2.3.1.
The references to Figure 3 (blue circles, green stars?) and the lack of references to Figure 4 in the text were often frustrating.
Additionally, I was keen to understand why the second term estimated without noise lost its significance when noise was introduced, but the authors did not address this point.
Furthermore, it was somewhat anticlimactic that the authors did not explicitly explore the interaction of the estimated plasticity rule with subsequent supervised learning, as this was strongly hinted at in the introduction.
For instance, are networks with the estimated rule better at reproducing songs than models with a traditional Hebbian rule?
Lastly, I found it odd that the decoding of time was not reported throughout the paper.
Since the reduction of loss can be attributed to three factors, this omission is noteworthy.
The authors were aware of the limitations of the methods used in the paper and addressed them accordingly.
One of the main limitations of the paper is that this very promising and flexible set-up is only applied to one very idiosyncratic task of elapsed time decoding.
This is a very specific task, and not one that brains do spontaneously (see next paragraph), so although it yields interesting results it seems a bit lacking.
It would be tremendously useful to see the results in a broad range of tasks, to see e.g.
under what conditions other common plasticity rules (Hebbian, anti-Hebbian, perhaps some dopamine-like reward-modulated plasticity) emerge.
The motivation of the system set-up is somewhat dubious.
The authors point out the importance of "intrinsic, self-organised dynamics" but then include as the primary component of their loss function the performance of an external decoder that predicts simulation time.
Neither the decoder nor the ground truth time values are in any way intrinsic to neural activity, so I would argue this is not representative of self-organisation.
On a separate note, the paper sorely lacks any demonstration of the "downstream" effects of these plasticity rules.
For example, the author's motivation is that "self-organized computations provide scaffolds for solving difficult tasks".
However, the authors don't actually show that the networks evolved with their discovered plasticity rules can actually solve any difficult task.
The paper gets really hard to follow towards the end, particularly Sections 2.3.2 and 2.3.3.
The intervention to increase or decrease E afferents in Sec.
2.3.2, as well as the analysis metrics in Fig.
It also surprising to see Sec.
2.3.3, the final results subsection of the paper, introducing a whole new model and a different plasticity rule, which are only partially related to the model and plasticity rules studied elsewhere.
Overall, I could not understand well the set-up or results in either of these subsections.
The details of the meta-learning procedure should be explained more thoroughly in Sec.
Figures are quite busy and in general hard to parse.
The "Discussion and limitations" section is very short and should be expanded.
- Unclear novelty: there have been many studies that evolved plasticity rules using some form of evolutionary computation and biological plausible rules.
In fact, evolution of Hebbian-like rules has been a popular area of research for decades.
While this study advances many previous studies, I feel that the novelty and contributions in this area are not well highlighted with respect to existing studies.
- It is unclear to me how the findings can be used more broadly.
I agree that it is interesting the CMA-ES and meta-learning can optimize plasticity rules to have interesting biological properties, but how can this finding be used?
This is the most important concern I have: what impact can this paper and its discoveries have in the field?
- Figures' clarity: there are a lot of assumption on the meaning of symbols, colours, etc, in the figure.
E.g., Fig 1c, unless one is very familiar with the zebra fish, I don't think these graphs very useful.
What is the big blue dot on top of the red ones?
what do the colour in the cell-index vs.
what does the graph mean?
- The manuscript describes synaptic turnover starting from the abstract, but a search of the term to find out what that is and how it is implemented did not provide satisfactory results.
- There may be an issue with the submission as the Supplementary information is not included, resulted also in broken references (e.g.
The paper addresses the limitations, in particular in relation to computational demands.
Typo: line 282: “enven arger”->”even larger” 2.
It is recommended that the paper should be extended to a full 9 pages.
According to the results, this method still faces challenges when optimizing the wire length and running time.
- The paper lacks an analysis of time complexity in the construction stage, leaving uncertainty about the scalability of the second stage.
- In the last paragraph of Section 3, a simple post-processing algorithm is proposed to shorten the wirelength, but it lacks detail and also misses the analysis of time complexity.
- I note that the performance of wirelength and overflow in Table 2 is pretty good for the case ‘newblue3’.
This could be potentially confusing as ‘newblue03’ is part of the training dataset.
- Typo: Line 282, enven arger.
- Suggestion: figure 2 could be moved to the next page to better correspond with Section 3.
Many important experimental settings are not disclosed.
The experimental results are not convincing.
The writing can be difficult to follow and occasionally confusing.
The motivation to use the non-negative matrix factorization is unclear.
Why can the factorized matrix be used as the attention?
Authors should give more insights about the non-negative matrix factorization and show the attention maps to demonstrate the effectiveness.
There are other matrix factorization methods such as SVD and QR.
Why is the non-negative matrix factorization chosen?
The factorization needs to solve an optimization problem which should do gradient descent steps.
In line 216, the Authors only use a one-step gradient for matrix factorization.
Is the one-step gradient enough to achieve satisfactory factorization?
The method part is not clearly illustrated.
e.g., equation 5 is confusing, and the symbols in the equation are not well explained.
The symbol mentioned in the main text is not well shown in the main figure.
The authors mentioned the limitations of the work and proposed future directions such as time series estimation.
- Lack of details about the training data for Gorilla, such as data stats and construction methods.
It’s unclear how different the Gorilla training data and evaluation sets of APIBench are, which could lead to doubts about data contamination.
- Experiment results analysis - How robust are models to paraphrased user instructions corresponding to the same target model API?
- Providing performance for each domain could make it possible to analyze which domains are easy and hard.
- Clarifications are needed: - In the experimental result section, the authors report two metrics along with overall accuracy: **the error by hallucination and by selecting the wrong API call.** The metric equations or explanations for calculating the values need to be clarified.
- In section AST as a Hallucination Metric (line 251), how was experimented to attain the human evaluation of 78% accuracy?
- It is required to mention the license of crawled APIs for usage.
- A limitation section is absent, though the authors describe them in the checklist.
Broader impact and limitation could include implicit risks such as usage of unreliable APIs, license infringement, or unexpected results by incorrect function calls.
- Limitation section is absent, though the authors describe them in the check list.
I would consider raising my score if a fair number of the following weaknesses can be fixed by the authors.
Many of them should be doable without extra experiments.
- Motivation: While in general I like the idea of pseudo-programs, but I don’t think it is very well motivated or explained in the paper.
For this relatively new concept to be introduced, I would like to see a more precise definition that describes each type of reasoning, whether its intuition based with no reasoning, “soft reasoning”, and exact reasoning.
State clearly what task falls into the camp of “soft reasoning”.
- Examples: I think the motivation is insufficient partly because of that the motivating examples (Fig.
1, 3, 10) do not seem to be requiring any “complex reasoning”.
By “complex reasoning” I specifically mean things like composition of multiple sources of information, long range dependency of information, the use of logical operations like “and”, “or”, “not”, and “implies”, and etc.
- Task/Dataset selection: (also related to previous points) I would want some more clarification on why the authors pick the presented tasks and datasets.
What makes these dataset special so that COGEX can be applied to them?
What additional conceptual benefits do COGEX bring to them?
This will also help motivate the methodology you proposed.
- Formalization: the symbol $f$ for COGEX model is unnecessarily abused.
It can be invoked with either 2 or 3 arguments, which does not type check as a well-defined formalization.
You should at least create two separate symbols, such as $f_{\text{reasoner}}$ and $f_{\text{enumlator}}$.
- Algorithm: The while loop in line 7-10 of Algorithm 1 does not seem to have termination guarantee.
This is a potential flaw in the algorithm.
What if the task and dataset is malformed and there exists no proper pseudo-program?
Your algorithm should account for this.
- Comparison to GPT-4: I don’t want to suggest to do new experiments with GPT-4 as baselines, but I do want clarification on why GPT-4 is not used as a zero-shot baseline.
I see that authors use GPT-4 to generate datasets used for training.
So it’s definitely not the case that authors do not have access or hardware/financial limitations for doing so.
Then why isn’t GPT-4 used as a baseline?
I would assume that GPT-4 without training can still be used to synthesizing pseudo-programs, right?
- Claim in the experimental results: authors describes Fig.4 as “Figure 4 (blue vs gold) shows that CoT… can approach COTACS performance on some NLP classification tasks but generally performs substantially worse.” But to me when looking at Fig.4, I don’t see this claim accurate.
I can only see significant difference on CoinFlip and Number Summing.
- Experimental setting: (related to the previous point) the direct comparison with zero-shot CoT might not be fair because your model has undergone fine-tuning, right?
- The author listed the limitations in the Appendix, which I would prefer doing in the main text.
This also relates to the first listed weakness that I wrote: giving a proper overview would help people identify where and when your methodology could be applied.
The ideas do not strike me as particularly novel.
As noted in the paper, using LLMs to generate code is not new, and neither is using language models to simulate program executors.
CoTACS is simply a top-k search.
It isn’t clear to me what advantage this method has over just passing the code to Python Interpreter.
Moreover, what advantage is there to using CoGEX to just using GPT4 given that the dataset was created using GPT4 in the first place?
While I appreciate the completeness of the presented results (for the sake of good science), even for experiments where the improvements are marginal, the results are often marginal at best, and it is unclear in what circumstances this approach is favorable and when it is not.
Likewise, the authors use 0-shot CoT as their comparison model (Line 236), which is the weakest CoT baseline possible.
Given that using an actual program interpreter is a viable alternative, I would be hesitant to adopt CoGEX without having a clearer understanding of when it outperforms simpler alternatives.
In my opinion, the paper would strongly benefit from the following: A.
A fair comparison with CoT, either controlling for the number of examples or showing at how many examples the models achieve parity.
Since this is the simplest thing to try for most ML practitioners, even parity would have me favor CoT over most alternatives.
A comparison, if applicable, to actual interpreters (e.g.
If this is not possible (e.g.
due to calls to undefined functions), how often is that the case?
Alternatively, if the model was forced to use predefined functions, how much better is it to use undefined functions?
I really was hoping for a more extensive Qualitative Analysis section (S 3.4) to get a better understanding of when CoGEX strongly outperforms the baselines.
The results in Table 1 demand too much prior knowledge about the individual tasks/datasets from the readers without some guidance on how to think about them.
The authors provide no guarantee of safety (this is acknowledged in the supplements), but not addressed.
The authors don't report statistical significance (e.g.
through bootstrapping) or variance across runs with different subsamplings of training data.
As far as I can tell, the reported experiments don't really include domains where the correct solution can be reached by actually executing a fully specified program, besides Number Summing (accordingly, a program-of-thought baseline is also missing).
In CoGEX the model is responsible for simulating program execution, so it seems likely that it would underperform in these settings.
While actually integrating an interpreter into a system that can still handle underspecified functions would be out of scope, it would be good to address this issue at the conceptual level somewhere in the text.
The authors include a short statement to the effect that their models may make reasoning mistakes and the model artifacts are provided without any guarantees of safety.
It might be worth including the fact that models may fail to execute generated code consistently, and thus generated code may be seen as an unfaithful explanation of model reasoning.
As stated in the strengths above.
One of the main issue is the clarity issue of the tasks.
Besides "what is the task", I also want to understand "why these two tasks are needed".
What do PEN and PERM these two datasets bring?
I believe the stated limitation regarding addressing weaknesses in the LLM is not appropriate for this specific paper.
Instead, the limitation should focus on the choice of the compositional dataset.
1- The author are recommended to discuss the accuracy degradation of quantized forward gradients compared to the backpropagation algorithm.
In some cases, the accuracy degradation is high (more than 5%).
A comparison of performance versus hardware complexity (FLOPs or another metric) is recommended, as seen in [1].
2- Evaluating the efficacy of quantized forward gradients on fine-tuning LLM models such as LLaMA-3 is recommended.
[1] Carmichael, Zachariah, et al.
"Performance-efficiency trade-off of low-precision numerical formats in deep neural networks." Proceedings of the conference for next generation arithmetic 2019.
The author addresses the limitations of this study by mentioning the initialization requirements for forward gradients and 16-bit weight quantization.
1- It would be suggested to discuss various initialization approaches that might be used instead of a pretrained network.
2- It would be suggested to discuss other numerical formats, such as 8-bit floating point or Posit, to solve the 16-bit weight quantization problem.

========== QUESTIONS (1196) ==========
Why not also compare open-sourced LLMs like Mistral/Llama in this work?
The numbers on the open-sourced models are also meaningful.
How about using the 3D geometry for molecular modeling and introducing the protein or pocket information as a prompt for drug discovery?
When increasing the safety delta, how does the MLLMS’ original capability vary?
Will it be hunted significantly?
In Table 1, are Vallina LLaVA and LLaVA identical?
What distinguishes LLaVA-1.5 in Table 6 from the others?
Is "Vallina" a typo, or does it have a specific meaning?
What is the difference between CoCA in Table 1 and 6, the results of Hate Speech are different.
- You provided the result of GPT-4 on the SPARTUN dataset; what are the results of GPT-4 on the other benchmarks?
- Can you visualize the Llama2 results in the same format and details of the GPT results?
More details will be helpful since the figure 4 plots is not very conclusive.
- Would it be possible to apply CoS approach to the other types of reasoning beyond spatial?
- In the analysis part of BrickWorld, did you experiment with different symbolic representations?
What would be the expected results in more complex setting if the symbolic representations are changed?
The extreme case would be using <- to represent left instead of right.
Would the model still understand it?
- Can you justify using GPT for creating the initial explanation compared to manually crafting CoS?
is the motivation reducing the human annotation effort?
- For CoT, the experiment is performed using manually crafted CoT.
What about the results from CoT if you follow the same steps as CoS?
Minor comments: * Check for "Shapely values" typo (should be Shapley) * On Page 4, you mention that you sample CoTs where the final answer was correct, "indicating that the chain of thought was correct".
Doesn't this assume the models have a 0% error recovery rate by default?
Or at least 0% unfaithful recovery.
If this is true, then does that undermine the original motivation for the work?
I'd at least like to see this assumption validated to see properly how much it's bent in the data.
EDIT: As a side note, I agree with Reviewer METV's comments on the use of the words "faithful" and "unfaithful" and also encourage the authors to adopt different terminology.
I acknowledge that some previous work has used these terms to refer to the connection between the CoT explanation and answer rather than the model's decision process, but I think this created a lot of confusion and we should all try and stick with the latter.
(1) I was wondering whether the findings in this paper could be generalized to open-source / smaller models?
For example, could the authors add some experiments with llama 3 series in different model sizes?
I am very interested in how the author's findings in this paper can be applied to enhance the model's reasoning capabilities.
Could the author possibly discuss these works to provide some outlook?
- Why is expressiveness interesting to track and how is it correlated with desirable properties?
Wouldn’t accuracy or semantic similarity to the language prompt be a more interesting metric?
- See questions regarding the evaluation setup - See questions about RAG results - Have you tried to provide Scenic documentation in a prompt?
It would be interesting to know the performance of this simple approach to understand the degree to which LLMs are capable to rely on a description of a DSL
* Did you think of an evaluation of the final generation?
* Will you release your code or instructions, especially the part involving LMQL?
* How did you create the example scenic programs from Fig.
Do you plan to release your code and the generated programs?
Because the whole system involves many steps, without code releasing, there might be reproducibility issues.
In the ablation study, I noticed an interesting phenomenon: the early stop has a significant impact on API calls in arithmetic reasoning and general reasoning tasks.
Whereas in the decision-making task, both methods have considerable impacts.
For code generation, however, neither method seems to have much effect.
What reasons might the author attribute to this phenomenon?
- In the case of journal papers, a certain amount of time is considered to have elapsed between submission and acceptance.
Is the analysis based on the date of submission or publication?
If it is the latter, isn't some kind of correction necessary?
- Whether the collected paper set is crowded or not depends on its coverage and the breadth of the field covered.
As an extreme example, the field covered by Nature is very broad, and on the other hand, it does not cover all papers in the related field, so the paper set is unlikely to be crowded.
Is it reasonable to discuss whether an area is crowded or not in a situation where different sources of the set of papers are used?
No specific questions - I will monitor the responses to other reviewers to see if I want to adjust my score.
If you want to best attempt to raise my score: 1.
Convince me the framework is the right conceptual model 2.
Tell me how you will rewrite parts to make the writing sharper There are a lot of terms/concepts/ideas floating around in the paper.
I would encourage adding some clear takeaways after each section or so on.
If you want the reader to reminder some findings, make them more salient (in intro, in the actual content sections), because I would worry readers will sort of leave this paper with a muddled conceptual model of what it says a few days after reading it.
I'm not saying this is the case for the results reported and I do believe that if we zoomed in to the individual models' training dynamics, they are probably adhering to the claimed patterns.
- What did the performance on the memorization examples in the multitask experiment look like?
- I would also be interested in knowing what the lower bound of the memorization dataset size for observing the effect in Section 5 - the smallest size (3000) is still quite substantial since it matches the size of the modular addition task dataset.
It would be very interesting if we observed such an effect with only a very small number of memorization examples.
More minor presentation suggestions: - Currently the right panel of Figure 1 is serving a dual purpose (illustrative and also showing experimental results), and they seem to contain insufficient information to actually show the points of the experiments.
please see the comments in the previous section.
How you sample and filter the 0.1B tokens?
What are the data resources for that?
The number of trainable parameters for different methods vary a lot.
Is the same lr 5e-5 fair for the implementation of each method?
Why Github is considered as a long-context corpus for evaluation?
The more common practice is using ArXiv paper dataset.
Does ChatGPT refer to gpt-3.5-turbo?
If so, please specify which model was used in the dataset generation with its model name (including version number) for better clarity and reproducibility purposes.
- How do you ensure consistency when generating new data using TarGEN?
For example, how can TarGEN be used to generate 1000 similar labeled samples across multiple separate runs (let's say 5 runs)?
- How do you enhance the diversity of the generated data?
- How do you ensure that TarGEN does not generate toxic sentences?
- What does Acnt in Table 2 mean?
Equation 1 includes two hyperparameters $\alpha_0$ and $\beta_0$.
How did you pick these two parameters?
How can the authors ensure that the writer LLM generates prompts within specific desired categories, such as "Compound term" or "Shared Property vs Privacy"?
Did the authors experiment with using different target LLMs in the generation process to improve the transferability of the generated prompts?
Figure 5, the x-axis should be the same between a and b.
Either (0.0-1.0) for both or (0.0-0.8) for both - not for 0.8 for one and 1.0 for the other.
Some of your findings are quite counter-intuitive (e.g.
LLaMa 2 with 13b parameters performing worse than the one with 7b parameters, Mistral demonstrating the best overall performance).
Do you have any intuition why?
What are some practical applications of your benchmark besides examining the performance of LLMs on the ambiguous QA task?
* Page 2/ Section 2 / Task definition: I believe this definition could be improved by citing and properly explaning the task of Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG; Lewis et al., 2020b; Izacard and Grave, 2021; Singh et al., 2021) which is briefly mentioned in the related works section.
* Page 7/ Section 5.1 and 5.2/ Gold only setting: authors may find the work of Kandpal et al.
(2022; related to oracle or gold retrieval settings (for completion of related works coverage).
* Page 8/ Section 5.3: "We categorize model outputs into five output categories with the automatic metric we have built in Section 4.2" a period is missing at the end of this sentence.
What was the error rate in the phonological transformations?
Why do you think finetuning works for lowering perplexity with Flan-T5 and not T5?
Figures 2/3 are hard to decipher
Please refer to the reasons to reject.
- I'm intrigued by the absence of algorithmic incentives for generating concise memories.
LLMs often required constraints on their generation.
Do you have an intuition on the underlying reasons for this phenomenon?
The result section could investigate how often items are dropped in the memories.
- It is very informative to explain the kind of fuzzy matching and steps used to retrieve an action when the LLM does not provide a clear candidate.
I’m curious as to how often this kind of fuzzy matching occurs during interactions.
- What are the shaded areas in figure 5?
The memory system depends on the agent's own exploration trails, so I wonder how the LLMs would affect the efficiency of the whole system?
As I concern that if the agent cannot retrieve useful information or if the reward is consistently low for a bunch of trials, in the case that the agent cannot gain use knowledge of the world, what would happen.
I guess environment but not defined in 3.1.
- Table 1: Is SayCan basically "Act" in ReAct?
"Observation" and "Action" turns?
SayCan should have grounded visual parts, not sure if ScienceWorld has it.
It would be interesting to understand the range of variability of achieved results by changing the comparative examples used in the evaluations, as well as the training data used to fine-tune the LLM.
How much semantic similarity and/or topic overlap are there between the data used for fine-tuning and the evaluation data sets?
Also, how human evaluations correlate to other human evaluations?
I think an opportunity is missed here to understand better the complexity of the task for humans and get a better sense on how far or how close the proposed technique is bringing us to human evaluations.
4.1 This article uses artificially constructed adversarial data (from previous research).
Does this impact the migration of the method in this article to other domains?
4.2 Apart from using a relatively large 7B model, what is the essential difference between your pairwise training method and the previous method that distinguishes positive and negative examples (such as DynaEval by Zhang et al., 2021)?
4.3 Why using an exhaustive comparison did not entail big improvements (Tables 3 and 4)?
4.4 The experimental results are different in Tables 3 and 6 when N=1.
If you need to fine-tune a model for Pairwise evaluation, how different is this to reference-free / LLM as a judge approaches?
I understand the need to bypass proprietary LLMs but we now have access to very powerful open-source LLMs that can be used as judges.
It would be nice to see a comparison against PairEval.
How do you handle topic switches, humour, sarcasm, or other cases where the response may not seem to match but could be actually good, funny, etc?
How difficult is it to design the LLM prompt (Section 3.2)?
If one needs to replace the LLM with a newer / different model, how much effort is it to re-design the prompt?
Do you think this approach could work on other domains e.g.
What adjustments would need to be made?
Given that your metric needs to be trained, have you tried using a larger LLM or training with more data?
Remove this sales talk, as it is completely unscientific: "Since conducting its first examination in 1993, Kanoon has been at the forefront of educational innovation, serving a nationwide network of 450,000 students.
The center is highly regarded for its comprehensive range of educational services, notably its facilitation of creating and administering smart, customized tests and providing standardized solutions for exercises through the Learning Ladder platform.
This just seems like more sales talk.
"The ongoing development of new questions for various educational stages and subjects allows for the continuous expansion and updating of the dataset, reducing the risks of data contamination and erosion." Are you committing to a regular update of the dataset, or what does this mean, really?
How was the human success rate in Figure 2 computed?
Explain the regex method better.
Give examples of answers where it is successful.
The "single probability probability" and "full answer probability" were also a bit obscure to me.
Shouldn't the model just output a single letter ("a", "b", "c", or "d") indicating the correct answer?
"In cases where Regex failed to identify the correct option, we utilized a pre-trained model to generate embeddings for each choice..." Is this still part of the Regex method, or is this an alternative method?
I didn't understand this sentence, please explain: "We chose the answer selected by humans if the combined total of the remaining three options was lower."
Section 3.2 talks about the ways the dataset was augmented -- were these all done with human experts or were some extracted from original metadata from learning ladder?
For example "Difficulty Level" specifies that each question was classified into one of five distinct difficulty levels but authors don't mention how or by whom.
The dataset seems to be heavily based on data from the Learning Ladder website.
Were there additional processing steps that the authors have implemented?
Overall, the dataset construction section (3.1) feels a tad sparse.
I did find that mT0XL outperforming a persian-english LLM to be interesting, especially given it's fairly strong performance on other MCQA datasets like Belebele (wondering if the authors dug deeper into this)?
Were the authors able to do any finetuning experiments?
finetuning on MCQA (maybe even Persian MCQA) datasets and then running the model on this particular task?
- Why does your method often perform worse on fluency compared to some baselines?
Is there a tradeoff for fluency vs diversity (similar to how you make this tradeoff when you change the temperature of generation)?
- Why is flexibility not a main metric?
Isn't coming up with more different answers a pretty reasonable thing to evaluate?
Or is the problem just that you don't have a good way to "deduplicate" different answers?
Not sure if I'm misunderstanding what is meant by flexibility in your setup.
- Why are all the metrics 0 when you have 3 agents in fig 6?
Q1: Can you report the average length of response for each task and each approach?
This would help explain to the reader whether length explains away the creativity difference or not.
Why did you not include in your prompt an expected response length, to normalize for this important effect?
Q2: Besides the tasks you've collected, whose intended audience are humans under a time constraint, do you have a sense of what tasks could be more appropriate to evaluate LLMs' creativity abilities?
Do you believe that the "number of turns" reflects a similar effect to human test-takers having "limited time" in TTCT?
Q3: Two of the core contributions in LLM Discussion seem to be: (1) the three phases, (2) the role-playing.
Yet, neither of these two elements seems to have been ablated.
Do you have experimental evidence showing that such elements indeed lead to improved creativity in the responses?
Q4: It is not 100% clear in the paper which LLM is used in experimentation.
The draft clearly states which GPT model is used for auto-eval, but not for generation.
Are the different roles all played by the same underlying LLM, or different LLMs?
Does that make a difference?
Q5: It is not 100% clear in the paper how the "Convergence Phase" is conducted.
It seems logical that only one LLM would perform the final agglomeration based on the conversation so far.
How do you pick which "role" gets to do the final response?
(e.g., do you get the final response from the environmentalist or the social entrepreneur).
Q6: Temperature plays a strong role on the diverging nature of an answer.
What temperature setting did you set the generation models with, and do you expect increased temperature to further improve creativity scores?
Minor notes: - It seems a bit of a stretch to call tau correlations at ~0.3 "strong correlation" - This reviewer appreciated the pun in the title of Section 6, kudos :)
There is mounting evidence that GPT4 is good at this so to benchmark you should focus on complex creative tasks
Since I am not perfectly familiar with the related literature, I cannot judge whether the semantic consistency metric is really novel or not.
What similar metrics have been introduced before, and why are they insufficient?
This is something that should be covered in related work.
It just seems rather obvious.
I am not saying it is not novel enough or too simple, just that I would imagine others to have introduced similar metrics before.
How is strong and weak response defined?
What is the interpretation of a voxel that consistently responds to one concept (e.g.
bird), but not another (e.g.
In Figure 5, it seems like smaller models (trained on synthetic data) tend to produce more n-grams that are not in the training data than larger ones.
Do you have any intuition on that?
(1) For determining LLM-as-a Judge for quality how did you determine the ranking of models in Table A4?
Some details about the approximate size of the dataset (i.e., average number of words per text and the likes), more details on how the conclusions drawn vary by the model size (your results seem to focus only on the 33M model) would be good.
Some of these is already seen in the supplementary material, but not discussed in the main paper.
Perhaps you can at least list some major observations and direct the reader to the supplementary material in the end.
At least mention briefly that you only look at English and we can't say whether these observations hold good beyond that.
While a limitations section does not seem to be mandatory in COLM, it doesn't hurt to add some nuance to the conclusions section.
Since the SymNoise method involves injecting noise twice, the authors should apply the same procedure to Gaussian and uniform noise for a fair comparison.
I expect this may bring some performance improvements.
I look forward to see some experimental results about testing-time computation on math or other tasks.
To see whether noise injection could benefit for random sampling.
Additional comment: A random-guess baseline is not necessary; please consider removing it from the results.
It is obvious that the AUC of a random guess is 0.5.
Thank you for this interesting work!
Although the presented results were quite insightful, there are some open questions where responses would really help to fine-tune the rating: 1.
How was the discussion history compiled?
Is this just a concatenation of the individual model outputs?
Or was there some additional summarization step?
Figure 4: Looks quite nice, but could you please elaborate and provide some explicit numbers?
What can be observed there?
Are you planning to release the full responses of the models for further analysis?
Why is the approach cast as "annotation" and not just as an ensemble-based classification approach?
Is there a fundamental difference?
See reasons to reject for clarification.
This paper is so well and clearly written.
It's a pleasure to read from the beginning to the end.
Although I am not an expert in model compression, this paper is quite strong by providing both empirical results and discussions for describing why the proposed approach works.
The figure 3 helps quite a lot for understanding the approach.
Just one quick question, how sensitive of the approach to the calibration dataset?
- This paper is focused primarily on business formation, the domain scope is still narrow.
This is completely fine, given the challenging set of tasks lawyers deal with.
However, I suggest authors to reflect that in title as case study on this or specific use case in title rather the current title which seem to appear to deal with all use cases.
- While the paper mentions that the diversity across humans is possible for a given task, some analysis on it could be helpful and insightful.
- More concrete examples of the LawFlow dataset entries would be helpful (e.g., excerpts of workflows, annotations) and explaining an end-to-end example would be beneficial for readers (even in appendix) - A.4 seems to be missing details, it has to be elaborated either in figure or in text.
You mention challenges with LLM context windows, yet you chose WBFP-enhanced ICL over RAG-based retrieval methods.
Could you clarify why RAG was not explored as an alternative?
What are the practical trade-offs between BFAD and a lightweight RAG approach in this domain?
Have you considered evaluating the framework's robustness against more advanced obfuscation techniques (e.g., polymorphism, control flow flattening) What are the computational overheads introduced by BFAD (especially WBFP) during inference?
How does the latency compare to baseline LLM usage or graph-based methods, and is the framework feasible for real-time or near-real-time detection scenarios?
(maybe out of scope) how difficult would it be adapting BFAD to WebShells written in other languages (e.g., ASP.NET, JSP) or to general web malware detection?
Would the Critical Function taxonomy and WBFP weighting require retraining or manual redefinition?
I think this is quite critical in terms of generalization of the approach
- As described in section 4.1, the speech encoder and cascaded systems are trained with English training set.
I assume it is English data from Fleurs.
However, I also notice Table 3 presents both MMS-1B-FLEURS and MMS-1B-ALL.
It is quite confusion and no clear explanation about "ALL" training data.
- "zero-shot cross-lingual transfer (ZS-XLT)" mentioned in section 4.2 is not clear.
As mentioned in section 4.1, the model is trained with English data only.
So the source language is English, is it correct?
- In Table 3, there are 7 languages are not supported by Whisper and SeamlessM4T, how do we generate the corresponding transcription with Whisper or SeamlessM4T models?
* Are the 1,000 random samples the same for all models or are they randomly selected for each model?
What is the resulting size of the instance matrix?
There are some grammatical and spelling errors (L:248, etc.).
The data is generated by GPT4-o.
Chances are most of the generation follows a similar pattern.
Is it covering enough stylistic variations in the problems generated?
What is the cost analysis of X‑teaming and ActorAttack?
Since ActorAttack is also an iterative method, it may achieve a higher ASR with more iterations.
What is the experimental setup, and does it run at a similar cost?
Could you explain the differences between X‑teaming and ActorAttack, and what features characterize X‑teaming?
In evaluating XGuard, did you test and compare it with SafeMT under a third multi‑turn attack?
XGuard is generated by X‑teaming, whereas SafeMT is generated by ActorAttack.
- Is the unlearn utility (Equation 2) in fact a weighted average of the other metrics?
Can you give more details on how the S_f and S_r are calculated?
- Figure 2 - I don't see the Pareto frontier --- is it defined by the hollow markers?
It is very hard to see these...
maybe the graphs are just too noisy?
- what prompts are used for the filtering and keyword generation baselines?
Regarding the generalization across tasks, has the author analyzed the reason for this OOD improvement?
* What does "no attribute" column in Table 3 mean?
How does the model work in this regime?
It seems like "no attribute" is a pretty strong baseline by itself, e.g., outperforming DialogRPT.
So it seems that a lot of the power of the model comes from the learning itself, not just from the attributes.
* The paper seems to build extensively on the work of Wang 2024a;b.
I would have liked to see a better explanation of the major novel contributions of this paper compared to this prior work.
- how would you approach a completely new domain, beyond Reddit's culture?
I'm curious about the dimensions: do you think they would transfer well?
Findings 7 and 8 are not clear.
can you elaborate how the results are supporting these claims.
Could you elaborate on the differences of different methods in terms of computational costs/efficiency?
From which tasks in the benchmarks does the improvement come from?
It would be useful to provide an additional analysis to better understand the strengths.
The paper might benefit from an ablation study for the performance impact of each proposed component (deviation-based weighting, length normalization, EOS regularization).
The main results in Table 2 look the best for AlpacaEval 2, but less so for Arena-Hard, and much less for MT-Bench.
I wonder if there's an alternative way to evaluate two systems head-to-head (i.g.
pairwise comparison) so that we can conclude method X is significantly better than method Y.
Out of curiosity, do you have a plausible explanation for why the trends for Llama-3 looks different than those for Mistral?
For instance, REFA-1-vs-k (p=0) performs the best for Llama-3 on Arena-Hard, but not so much for Mistral.
The paper is very heavy on analytical and quantitative results, but I think it would benefit greatly from some additional examples to show how the proposed methods might help (e.g., how did EOS regularization help on a specific example?)
Calibrated Scores Its well known that pairwise ranking losses (e.g., Equation (10) of this submission) is shift-invariant hence may not produce calibrated scores, as pointed out by [1].
Why not considering point-wise loss functions or hybrid objectives [1] (listwise Softmax + pointwise BCE) to produce more calibrated scores?
Experiment Settings and Results (1) What's the model size for each method in Table 1 and Table 2?
The model size should include every component needed to do inference.
For example, does ELIAS and ELIAS+LEVER have the same model size, as LEVER is just in-place modifying the OVA classifiers of LEVER?
If not, I am concern about the performance gain of LEVER is due to additional model capacity.
(2) In Table 1, ELIAS+LEVER achieved >20% absolute gain on LF-AOL-270K in P@3 and P@5.
If not a typo, any insight why such significant gain?
Similar questions to ELIAS+LEVER on LF-Wiki-1M, PSP metrics.
(3) On page 9, the author claims the training time of LEVER only increased by at most 2x.
Does that include (a) training time of teacher bi-encoders (b) prediction time of teacher bi-encoder to generate soft-labels (c) training time of student OVA classifiers which are trained by not only sparse ground truth labels but also dense soft-labels?
If so, what's the detailed breakdown in terms of those three components?
(4) Suppose the ground truth label matrix is a sparse $N \times L$ matrix.
How dense are the soft-labels generated by LEVER?
Does the performance of LEVER vary when using different top-$k$ soft-labels per input?
Macro-averaged Evaluation Metrics To properly measure the performance of long-tailed labels, text classification community often consider Macro-average Precision/Recall/F1 metrics [2,3,4].
The author should also report Macro-averaged metrics to further validate the major claim of LEVER, which is the the performance gain on tailed-labels.
## Reference [1] Yan et al.
Scale Calibration of Deep Ranking Models.
Long-tailed Extreme Multi-label Text Classification by the Retrieval of Generated Pseudo Label Descriptions.
A re-examination of text categorization methods.
RCV1: A New Benchmark Collection for Text Categorization Research.
Can the teacher model be adapted to the current task?
How does its performance compare?
What are the differences between directly using a better model for distillation and utilizing the results of other models as auxiliary information in this paper?
Refer to the weaknesses mentioned.
Would MIRAGE still be as effective if used on a very large data set?
Why is MIRAGE, which only uses the CPU, so much faster than DOSCOND and KIDD, which can use the GPU?
If a datasets is large, but its global computation tree is very similar, will such a datasets affect the effect of MIRAGE?
How will MIRAGE perform in multi-classification tasks?
My major questions are on the experimental evaluation.
It would tremendously strengthen this work by addressing the concerns listed in the Weakness section.
Original dataset labels are still used during the distillation procedure.
So is it a strictly unsupervised algorithm from this perspective?
There is no clear statement about how Figure 1 is plotted.
And I can't get what the x-axis and y-axis represent, respectively.
How did you chose the number of `O` in `BOOOOKSCORE` ?
In the description of "incremental updating" in section 2, you state that "One major issue with the hierarchical merging approach is that it necessitates summarizing portions of the input document without complete context ...
which can lead to incoherent summaries especially for non-linear or multi-perspective narratives." However, your experimental findings show that hierarchical merging results in more coherent summaries.
Do you have an explanation for this observation?
In 3.1, while lemma 1 is straight-forward, I do not fully understand why the authors mention “in graph machine learning fields each instance corresponds to different graphs with possibly different structures”, as the paper does not address the case of graph classification?
And what does “instance” present?
(the authors might wanna refer to a graph as an instance, but in the context of paper where node- and edge-level tasks are considered, each node or random variable in the PGM correspond an an instance.) 2.
What is the complexity of the proposed method, and are there any ways to scale it to large graphs?
If possible, please also answer to questions in the weakness section.
--- I decrease score from 6 to 5 due to my lingering concerns, and there has been no response from the authors to date.
For link prediction tasks, how is the experiments done?
Why don't choose metric of link prediction to be HITS@10 like in the BUDDY paper.
Also, why not include other baselines in the BUDDY paper, especially the GNN ones?
Also, maybe lack of other experiments on large link prediction datsets 2.
For node classification task, why not choose traditional homogeneous datasets and heterogeneous datasets like previous works.
How will phantom nodes have impact when meeting graphs with different heterophily?
Also, why For GCNII it hardly work better than SPN?
What's the complexity of GNNs with phantom nodes or phantom edges, for node classification and link prediction ,respectively?
Please refer to the weaknesses.
Question: It seems that DropGNN (perhaps applied to a slightly modified graph) is closely related to the proposed PN method.
How do the two compare in inference tasks?
Suggestion: I find the paper would be strengthened by a more direct discussion of the origins of the methodology (i.e., how does this differ/extend from previous works?
Re-clarify the contribution of this paper, and provide strong results or explanations to support the claim.
Furthermore, re-clarify the scenario for better understanding.
For decoding-based watermarking, if different users are assigned different keys, will the distillation or spoofing attacks fail?
What is the additional computational cost?
Besides decoding-base LLM watermarking, there exist some backdoor-based LLM watermarking methods.
Are the findings still suitable for them?
I would like to request an evaluation using Llama-2 for both distillation techniques, rather than different models for each.
Doing so would allow for a more direct comparison of the distillation methods themselves, better isolating the impact of the techniques.
This could strengthen the technical contributions by providing improved analysis of the relative efficacy of logits-based vs sampling-based distillation.
Additionally, conducting more in-depth studies on spoofing attacks across diverse topics and datasets could further increase the impact of the work's findings.
Expanding the spoofing experiments to include varied contexts beyond the current proof of concept could substantiate the risks posed.
Rigorously demonstrating successful spoofing in different settings would validate concerns around watermark security and attribution.
This expanded analysis could strengthen the evaluative assessment by demonstrating comprehensive consideration of the practical implications.
* What are your contributions towards open model watermarking?
* How sample-efficient is the spoofing attack?
* Can the distilled and original watermarked distributions be distinguished?
I assume the spoofed watermarked does not learn rare watermarked sequences, but instead focuses first on the most often occurring ones.
If a defender can detect and ignore those during detection, can they evade your spoofing attack while effectively detecting watermarked text?
In Equation 7, $e$ is not defined in this paper, and the implementation of $s( \cdot , \cdot )$ is also not provided.
Does $||A||$ operate by summing all elements of $A$ in Equation 14?
Besides, does Equation 14 exist error?
To satisying the sparsity requirement of causal and dynamic causal graph set, whether Equation 14 should be replaced by $\frac{{||A_t^C|{|_1} + ||A_t^S|{|_1}}}{{||{A_t}|{|_1}}}$?
In Table 2, OrphicX achieves the best performances on DTree-Grid (96.1).
But, you bold your work DyGNNExplainer (94.2 < 96.1).
$\Theta $ should be replaced by $\Psi $ in the last line of Section 2.
How to interpret the 'dynamic' in DyGNNExplainer?
Can the datasets in experiments support the augment raised in this paper, as it seems there are no dynamic graph in experiments?
Distinguish the distinctions between this work and CaST.
In table 2, the best performance for OrphicX is obtained by DTree-Grid?
In Table 2, for Node classification task, OrphicX performs better than DyGNNExplainer on DTree-Grid dataset but is not bolded?
Can you compare your model on static graphs to state-of-the-art explainers?
How sensitive the model is to the hyper parameters in Equation 15?
What’s the computational complexity of solving Equation 15?
Can the authors provide additional ablation studies following the weaknesses presented above?
Specifically, it will be beneficial to present the performance as a function of the number of systems used in training (see weaknesses 1.) and add additional baselines (see weaknesses 2.) 2.
Judging from the presented results the current framework is not suitable for larger systems, could the authors suggest possible extensions that may allow?
What would be the necessary refinements that could be incorporated in the meta-learning configuration to allow for that?
I don't have particular questions.
It would be great if the authors could additionally report the results of some experiments to investigate the limitation of meta-learning in this context, although this is not a question.
In Figure 4, why does a lower CKA value of the meta-trained model suggest it learned more similar representations during adaptation?
As the authors mentioned, should a low CKA value indicate different representations?
- Is it possible for the diversity criterion to end up selecting outliers in the datasets?
How can this issue be fixed?
- Do you need to use the representations from the Llama-13B model for computing distances as well?
Can you use a different (smaller?) model for computing distances than the one you instruction-tune?
- DEITA-6K loses more to the random selection baseline than to the Vicuna model according to the human evaluation results in Table 4.
How does the random selection model perform compared to the Vicuna model in this case?
Why the complexity measurement is obtained from “instruction”, and the quality measurement is obtained from “response”?
Is there any intuition of this?
Typo: “large margine” should be“large margin” in the last sentence of the introduction.
Could the authors extend their testing to include a broader range of datasets and perform a comprehensive comparative analysis with current state-of-the-art methods to better highlight the efficiency and quality improvements of the BOSS method?
Can the paper provide a detailed comparison of resource requirements, such as memory usage, power consumption, or processing time, to evaluate the practicality of BOSS for users with limited computational resources?
How does the computational intensity of the dynamic programming algorithm and the network retraining requirement impact the method's applicability in resource-constrained environments?
Additionally, has the scalability of BOSS been assessed in relation to increasing dataset sizes or complexity, and if not, would the authors consider evaluating this to enhance the paper's comprehensiveness?
- Could you further explain "high false positives" in existing n-gram-based analyses?
- How did you deal with the labels for the data samples in test sets?
- How does the performance of this method compare to that of prior work (see Weakness) - How sensitive is the proposed test to the model size?
If a dataset is not exchangeable, how effective is the method?
In Figure 1 the authors show test set contamination for BoolQ.
But the examples there are unlabeled.
Are the authors targeting unlabeled test set contamination i.e.
the input is present in the pretraining data but not the label?
Would be great to have some justification and explanation of this setting.
If I understand correctly, PEPITA-TL differs from PEPITA-Hebbian by one feature: the anti-Hebbian error term is computed for the updated weights.
Based on that, I have two questions: 1.
Would performance of both algorithms match if we reduce the learning rate of PEPITA-TL?
Intuitively it should, since the anti-Hebbian error terms would match.
Can we consider PEPITA-Hebbian temporally local since it's a long-term plasticity rule?
Since the network is trained with two passes over the same input, the PEPITA-TL approximation adds the first Hebbian term immediately after the first forward pass, so 10s/100s of ms.
This would be too short for long-term Hebbian changes (as far as I know), so in your model you can treat both parts of the update rule as if they happen for the same network state -- meaning that PEPITA-Hebbian would be temporally local.
(I guess you can account for short-term plasticity as a result of the first forward pass (so non-Hebbian changes proportional to input activity only).) Small comments: 1.
Tab1 should have PEPITA-Hebbian performance too.
The appendix can be included in the main pdf in this conference.
- Which approach do the authors considers their primary contribution?
Table 1 the authors refer to PEPITA-TL as "ours" yet this is only discussed briefly in Section 5.1 and left mostly to future work.
- Why are the combinations "weight-decay + normalization + WM" and "weight-decay + normalization + no WM" missing in Table 2?
Can weight decay and activation normalization not be combined?
- In Figure 3c: shouldn't pre-mirroring increase the alignment (thus decreasing the angle) before the first epoch?
Yet, in Figure 3c, all three lines seem to start at the same value.
Do the authors have other examples of how model arithmetic might intuitively be used?
I have included my questions in the weaknesses part.
1) How do you think model averaging via output distributions could compare with weight averaging of the model parameters?
Would be curious to know your thoughts here.
2) How straight forward and performant would it be to swap in different models for each part here and capture the output distribution, if the vocabulary was shared?
My questions mainly lie in some unclear experiment analysis and the generalizability of the proposed approach to a broader range of severity levels.
My questions are mainly in the efficiency comparisons between the proposed SAF module and the TTA baselines, and some clarification on statements.
Moreover, I wonder about the effect of the proposed method on the settings of MIXED SEVERITIES and MIXED DISTRIBUTION SHIFTS.
Certainly, this is optional during the rebuttal time because the settings are out of the scope of the paper, but I think the results would strengthen this work.
The primary questions for the rebuttal primarily arise from the "weaknesses" section.
It would be highly appreciated if the authors could provide further explanations regarding the experiments and address the raised concerns, which will strengthen the paper.
Overall, I recommend accepting this paper.
My primary concerns revolve around the lack of comprehensive experiment details and the design of the modulation strategies, as highlighted in the weaknesses.
* Could you please explain more about what "SYMMETRIC" means in your proposed method and title?
Is it mainly from the same temperature or regularization strength $\lambda$ for both players?
* Then how compatible your proposed method and proof can be extended to when there exists $\lambda_1$ and $\lambda_2$ for two players respectively?
Since you mentioned that the problems you are looking for naturally arise for example solving robust learning or zero-sum games in reinforcement learning.
Usually, in the robustness via adversarial learning, the regularization strength is relevant to the strength of the adversary.
For example, if the adversary is attacked on soft actor-critic (SAC)[1], which originally had its regularization term (temperature), then it is not flexible to have the regularization terms for the target agent and the adversary the same values.
* Could you analyze why MFL-AG can have a lower NI error compared with MFL-ABR and does it mean that MFL-AG performs better than MFL-ABR in this experiment?
Furthermore, please suggest what kind of numerical experiment is more suitable with MFL-ABR against MFL-AG, and vice versa.
[1] Haarnoja, T., Zhou, A., Abbeel, P., and Levine, S.
Soft actor-critic: Off-policy maximum entropy deep reinforcement learning with a stochastic actor.
In International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2018
*(Q1)* Algorithm 1 and elsewhere - rathen than sample subsets of $\mathcal{X}_k,\mathcal{Y}_k$, maybe you could just use a weighted empirical measure where set $\mathcal{X}_k$ has weight proportional to $\beta_k$?
*(Q2)* Can you clarify what is $\Pi$ and explain specifically the proof of Lemma C7?
Also, what are some limitations of the proposed methods?
What are the authors' intuition as to why does \xi undergo a phase transition driving ICL ?
And how to, ideally, accelerate it using insights derived here ?
As written in the Strengths section, I am very positive about this paper and so I do not have many technical suggestions or questions for the authors.
I would like to see at the end a clear discussion about the limitations of this simple/abstract model.
Which aspects of an LLM's behavior may still be important but not captured by the proposed simple task and model that the paper proposes?
I would also like to see a more clear discussion of how your observations/conclusions agree (or disagree?) with earlier results in the literature about ICL and the emergent abilities of LLMs.
-- In my opinion, the connection between the phenomenology observed in the full transformer model and the insights the authors derive from the three-parameter model could be made stronger with more experiments.
Have the authors considered techniques like activation/path patching and knockouts (see e.g.
for examples of this approach) to test whether the explanations they come up with actually have explanatory power in the original model?
-- Why do the authors switch from the p_C = 0 case to the p_C > 0 case halfway through the paper?
I find this confusing as it makes the relevance of the mechanistic analysis to the p_C = 0 regime unclear.
-- The authors note that when p_B < 1, the network learns an IWL solution, and then fix p_B = 1 thereafter.
Later, they note that p_C > 0 always leads to an ICL solution (presumably with p_B fixed at 1).
To me, the authors have failed to consider the most realistic and interesting regime, where 0 < p_B < 1, and 0 < p_C < 1, where neither an ICL solution alone nor an IWL solution alone is optimal.
Is there a reason the authors choose not to consider this regime?
- How were the targets in table 1 derived; why are these targets desirable?
- In distribution shift settings where we assume access to a validation set from the test distribution, is it not better sometimes to just fine-tune on the validation set (or a portion of it)?
It could potentially be a good baseline comparison.
While Section 4 gives a comprehensive overview of different forms of captured uncertainties in $g_\theta$, I would be also interested in seeing concrete learning behaviors of $g$ in the real-world experiments.
Perhaps the authors could augment the results by showing patterns of $g$ in this regime, e.g., by plotting the distributions of the learned weights, and how these evolve over the training.
Right now, it is hard to get an impression about the learning dynamics, raising the following questions: Does the novel meta loss slow down the training by making it more cautious, or does it even accelerate the training?
Note that I am not referring here to what has been discussed in E.3, but with the focus on learning curves.
For instance, setting the maximum number of epochs / data points to control training costs is often a critical consideration in real-world application at larger scales.
Could the U-SCORE and predictor weights be shared?
How would this affect the training?
* What is the definition of $g(x)$?
And how does this relate to $\theta$.
I couldn't find this information when it was introduced, which made this paper very hard to grasp what was happening.
* How do $w_i$ and $\Theta$ relate?
* What is the theory in Scenario 1?
* What are the associated issues with this approach?
I understand the objective of minimising uncertainty, but minimising the metric which provides the uncertainty is not the same thing.
I'm concerned that all this is doing is simply collapsing the dropout distribution to all become the same parameters, i.e.
it makes no difference on the prediction which parameters are selected.
Whilst I think there is some contribution in this paper, I just don't think in it's current form it's ready for publication.
I would suggest that the authors improve: * The quality of the paper to make it easier to understand what the method is, i.e.
define $g(x)$ properly * A proof would strengthen the paper significantly.
If you can prove why minimising the variance provides improved uncertainty you're onto a winner.
* Add more architectures, using only ResNet-50 is not enough.
* I would also suggest removing the empirical evaluation on the top set up.
If you have a toy set up like this, it should turn into a proof.
My most important concern is summarized in point 1 -- in particular, the ambiguities around orientation equivariance and the use of oriented operators built from the incidence matrices are what cause me to suggest this paper be rejected.
If the authors are to focus on either of the two points in order to change my mind on this paper, it should be the first one.
There are some details missing regarding the type of data being handled.
In particular, the incidence matrices are not defined in a way sufficient for the discussion following in the paper.
Normally, the incidence matrices have values of +-1 depending on a chosen reference orientation (usually given by some ordering of the nodes).
Coupled to this, the signs of the features on the simplices are determined relative to the same reference orientation -- this gives meaning to the notion of orientation equivariance.
Without discussing these things, orientation equivariance is not a meaningful concept within the context of the paper.
This calls into question the validity of the example in Section 4.1.
You say that all simplices are given a feature value given by some scalar $a$ -- yet, the matrices acting on these feature vectors/matrices have an orientation associated to them.
It seems as if you are using an *oriented operator* to act on *unoriented features*.
Property 1 in this example is thus difficult to claim, as the property of orientation equivariance is one describing the action of *oriented operators* acting on *oriented features*, and how the choice of orientation to begin with is irrelevant to the computation.
Furthermore, this problem yields a comparison for isomorphism testing incorrect, as the erroneous imposition of differently-oriented features relative to the chosen orientations could be used by SaNN to yield a "false negative," i.e., saying that two isomorphic complexes are different.
A more minor comment in this direction comes from the **Insights** section of Section 5.1.
It is not correct to say that "the superior performance of SaNN also proves the orientation equivariance of SaNN experimentally." Orientation equivariance is a simple mathematical property, and does not guarantee good performance, nor are all performant architectures on a given dataset orientation equivariant.
These properties are possibly linked, but the claim that one proves the other in some way is not justified.
Moreover, based on my reading of the appendix, many of their experimental setups for tasks other than trajectory prediction use "unoriented data" by simply assigning scalar values to high-order simplices, which is again incompatible with the use of oriented operators.
Perhaps something in the implementation of SaNN in these examples does not use oriented operators such as the incidence matrices, but this is not clear to me.
Please either justify, clarify, or revise the paper's discussion regarding orientation equivariance.
Related to the above point, the claims in Section 4.2 seem reasonable at first glance, but are not explained well enough.
Permutation equivariance is easily seen to hold, so is not much of a concern.
Orientation equivariance is subject to the problems noted above, so more clarification on the type of simplicial features and relevant operators needs to be made.
That is not to say that the result proved in the appendix is wrong, but it needs to be clarified in order to be understood in a way that acts on oriented features.
Simplicial awareness is more subtle than the other two, based on the definition from (Roddenberry et.
For instance, some of the existing convolutional-type SNNs in the literature fail to satisfy simplicial awareness if they are implemented without nonlinear activation functions, due to the fact that the square of the (co)boundary operator is the zero operator.
Perhaps it is the case that the assumptions of Theorem 4.2 are sufficient to exclude such methods, but a clearer connection is needed.
It would be very helpful for the authors to briefly survey some of the methods they compare to, and clarify whether Theorems 4.1 and 4.2 apply or don't apply to them.
--- Thank you for addressing my questions -- I have raised my suggested score.
Is assuming the learnable transformation functions $g_k^{(t)}\cdot)$ are injective too strong?
Although the MLPs will be injective, appealing to the Universal Approximation Theorem to declare that $g_k$ can be injectively-approximated is probably not practical.
I may have missed this but are pre-computation times explicitly indicated in the results?
- I wonder how the method compares to previous methods in inference runtime, when feature precomputation needs to be included.
----------- I thank the authors for proving the precomputation times explicitly and for replying to other concerns I have - this is certainly helpful to evaluate the differences to previous work.
In general, I am still on the fence and still doubt the significance of the contribution.
However, I acknowledge that other reviewers find value in it and, thus, slightly raise my score.
I am not opposing this paper to be accepted, as I think it is a thorough and well executed work.
Could you respond to the above concern, and additionally address the following questions/comments?
On several occasions the notion of "non-deep baselines" is used.
Could you clarify what non-deep means here, which methods are these?
In section 2 when presenting the symbols it is mentioned that $k=1,2,\dots,N+1$.
Does $k$ always run up all the way to $N+1$?
The sentence that starts with "The theorem implies that any arbitrary ..." is extremely long and hard to comprehend.
I suggest to split it 2 or 3 sentence to improve readability.
Just above property 1 it is mentioned "other commonly used sum, mean, or max read-out functions are not injective" I am not fully sure I understand it correctly.
The paragraph above explains that sum aggregation is the best injective aggregator, in contrast to mean aggregation.
I think the statement that I just quoted is about aggregating over the different $\mathbf{Y}$'s?
Perhaps this can be clarified.
In the tables: since colors red and blue are used you might as well color the text in the caption as well.
"The {\color{red}first} and {\color{blue}second} best performances ..." 7.
The insights section says "The deep models are observed to perform exceptionally better than logistic regression", where do I see this?
Logistic regression taking what as input?
Thank you for considering my comments and questions.
- Baselines do not consider the information from superset, but these baselines be improved by adding the invariant sufficient statistic of the superset?
Below are my suggestions, which I think can help make your paper stronger.
Your definition and narratives of in-context learning and the algorithm learning perspective (the last two paragraphs in 'in-context learning' paragraph in section 2) seems to follow closely with the formulation in [1] and the formal definition in [2].
Does your definition of in-context learning similar to their definitions?
Or do you have any differences?
IMO maybe you can discuss more about your definition of ICL and how it relates to algorithm learning process.
I am not sure how you sampled the random conjunction function for each task.
I think it is more important to say how you sample the random functions than how you sample the random inputs.
Do you sample the random conjunction functions by sampling k variables for a fixed k and then form the conjunction function as the intersection of these k variables (f = 1 iff all these k variables are 1)?
Is it possible for you to show what algorithm the TFs actually implement on some simple tasks like conjunction or disjunction?
For this, you can either look into the attention weight of attention matrix (maybe train a single-layer TF?) or maybe you can try to provide some constructions that can provably learn these tasks?
These can be hard even an open problem, which is definitely not a requirement.
For some tasks in your paper, there should be existing algorithms to learn it, such as conjunction or disjunction.
I am also wondering how does trained TFs compare to them?
Also, some existing paper shows that the TFs can approximate or possibly learn (in-context) the Bayesian optimal estimator over some function class [1,2,3].
I suppose under the task distribution in your paper, it is very likely that the Bayesian optimal estimator is analytically intractible, but I think it should be numerically computable under some simple tasks.
So I am wondering how does trained TFs compare to the Bayesian optimal estimators (or some strong, computationally efficient baseline on specific task, if any).
Transformers as Algorithms: Generalization and Stability in In-context Learning [2].
Trained Transformers Learn Linear Models In-Context [3].
Pretraining task diversity and the emergence of non-Bayesian in-context learning for regression.
How about the correctness of the "high-quality nodes"?
The authors should perform a sensitivity analysis for the crucial hyperparameters in the proposed model.
Can the proposed GNN backbone effectively handle generic multi-class node classification tasks?
- If I understand correctly, did you define the scenarios and categories both for fine-tune the model to perform evaluation AND test the model to perform evaluation?
In that case, if we want to evaluate an LM that performs a new task that is not in the 58 categories you have defined, would Auto-J generalize to categories unseen during training?
- Did you use GPT-4 as the label generator?
If so, if one had enough OpenAI credit, the optimal strategy of evaluation according to this paper would still be using GPT-4 or not?
(both yes/no are okay answers, but I think it'd be useful to clarify)
It is clear that this paper is in a long line of other approaches.
Yet, it is not clear why evaluating LLMs with an LLM is principled.
Is it necessary to have a 13b parameter model to train the scenario classifier?
Have you tried other simple BERT-like models?
2).Is there any bad case that Auto-J fails or Auto-J generates wrong critiques?
In figure (1): d(s_(t+1), f(st, at)) and \delta were not defined in the caption or anywhere obvious in the main text.
||^2_F denote the Frobenius matrix norm?
It is only stated so after eq (5).
It helps to have the notation introduced earlier here.
Especially since “F” is the dimension of the feature space
How was the synthetic data set created?
What is the baseline in Fig.
Please provide a response to the weaknesses mentioned above.
I enjoyed reading the paper.
It demonstrates a variant of “linkability attacks” in LLMs and empirically validates it.
Apart from the fact that one can launch such an attack, this reviewer has gained no new technical insight from this work.
While this demonstrates “feasibility” and that is of merit, what do follow-up works look like in this area?
The authors motivate their work by stating that identifying certain attributes is potentially hazardous for people since these attributes can be cross-referenced with public databases to de-identify users.
This reviewer believes this claim is a stretch; could the authors highlight how one can deanonymize the users that were present in the dataset they considered?
While these claims are “true” from an academic sense, making these threats practical requires a lot of additional work which the authors do not factor in.
The reviewer agrees with the authors that the LLM can be used to coerce users into sharing more private information.
However, In the adversarial interaction scenario, the attack is easy to thwart.
Users could perform prompt injection (as noted in this thread: and can read the instructions.
Given how brittle LLMs are to such forms of attacks, how reliable can such “coercion attempts” be made?
The notion of “defenses” against such attacks also seems slim.
But should this be something that we need to actively defend against?
Sharing posts (as done in the status quo) intrinsically contains some notion of utility that will be removed if the deducible information is scrubbed.
Can the authors comment on the same?
While the LLMs are certainly faster than humans, I don’t believe the numbers in this study are the very best humans can do.
Could the authors describe how their human baseline can be improved?
My understanding is that few humans were tasked with identifying attributes using web search (without much training on this front).
- Labelling procedure - It seems only one human label was obtained per example as there is no mention of how final labels are aggregated.
- More discussion on how you obtained these numbers?
> achieving up to 85% top-1 and 95.8% top-3 accuracy at a fraction of the cost(100×) and time (240×) required by humans.
- Have you considered using LLMs to "rewrite" inputs in a privacy-preserving manner?
Please also refer to the previous section.
-- Can the authors show ablation studies for the L_map and L_cap objectives to develop better understanding of each component?
Could abalations with and without the assignment loss be provided to show its effectiveness?
Could visualizations (e.g.
t-SNE) over the feature space with and without the assignment loss be provided, to show its effects in aligning the features?
The difference/contribution over LLaVA or MAGMA can be more clearly discussed.
Please review the weakness section
Q1: In the prompt, I wonder whether the “error input” are included, or only the “experience” is included?
From figure 1, I only see “error report” like “step 1 is not closer to 24”, no “error input” like what is step 1, 2, 3.
How the LLM know what step 1 mean, and how can LLM learn from error, if LLM does not know specific input?
Q2: How about you consider the entire (input, error analysis) as an In-context Learning example?
Then the entire method is similar to CoT, meaning that you can manually construct an exemplar consisting of (input, error analysis) pair.
Then use the CoT idea to follow the strategy to generate analysis and think about the correct answer.
Do I understand correctly that T 10 was maximum 10 prompts and M 15 consisted of 15 instances that generated binary trees that you then averaged over?
As for the statement on page 3, 'Our paper embraces ToT due to its high ability and leaves GoT and BoT for future work,' is 'BoT' a typo error here?
Or you mean combining BoT method with GoT?
Regardless, I believe that including GoT in the comparison would make this work more interesting and informative.
In the 'Competitors' paragraph in experiments, could you clarify how many reasoning chains are sampled for Complex-CoT and PHP respectively?
The study conducts experiments based on GPT-4, which can lead to substantially high experimentation costs.
Have the authors considered or utilized more cost-effective options like GPT-3.5-turbo?
I'm aware of the recent variability in performance of this model.
However, if there are experimental results showing that GPT-3.5 combined with BoT can outperform GPT-4 with CoT/CoT-SC, it would render the study's findings more convincing.
What's the reason for choosing m to be 96?
How does m affect the performance of TabR?
What's the inference efficiency of TabR and how does it compare with other baselines (e.g., GBDT)?
Is TabR applicable to categorical features?
It seems like the paper only considers continuous features.
Inference time and compexity -- are the studies based on normalized inference time between models?
If not, could you comment more?
How does the inference complexity depend on the size of the table data?
Could a different selection of datasets prove that the tabR is not superior to GBDT?
In other words, are these datasets highly representative?
Is it not surprising that Step-1 (adding context labels) did not help that much?
One would guess that this is a big component of signal in retrieval augmentation.
Not a question, but the methodology here reminds one of extreme classification and specifically this paper.
Also, what is $I_{cand}$?
Is it all rows of the table that labels have been provided for?
It's mentioned in page 3 that "we use the same set of candidates for all input objects" but what it the set of candidates exactly?
- The C4 dataset could possibly contain the documents written in the "academic" style although in a different domain.
Similarly, the C4 dataset could also contain documents related to the biomedical domain although having different factual information.
So, it is possible that the model is adapting fast to the academic style and biomedical domain topic because it has already seen them in the pretraining data, but the diverse factual information in the PubMed dataset is new for the model, and that is why model is possibly taking time to capture that knowledge.
Have authors taken this into consideration in their analysis of the finetuning process?
* I wonder if there are other factorizations which can be studied in the same setup, apart from style/topic/knowldge?
- There is a "side note" in page 7: "When capacity is limited, the topic ratio and factual ratio simultaneously reduce on Pubmed in Figure 6." I did not see topic ratio reduces in Figure 6.
Is this information supposed to be told by Figure 6?
Line 12: Missing space before the first set of references 2.
Line 50: A Stackelberg equilibria -> A Stackelberg equilibrium 3.
Lines 59-60: Technically this is a pseudo-polynomial time algorithm since the dependence on $1/\epsilon$ is polynomial 4.
Why are you using the notation $\mathbb{N}_+$ instead of just $\mathbb{N}$?
(those are presumably the same sets) 5.
Lines 132 - 134: The game being convex-concave is surely not the only condition that makes the problem amenable to first-order methods 6.
Theorem 3.1: then, in expectation over all runs of the algorithm, then (I would remove the second repetition of the word "then") 7.
There are many overfull equations in pages 21-23 of supplementary; I strongly encourage to fix those 10.
Overall there are missing punctuation marks in the equations throughout the entire paper 11.
Line 839: the argument is incomplete 12.
It would be helpful to introduce the notion of stochastic convexity since it is quite non-standard
* Is the assumption of convexity-concavity necessary to prove convergence?
Could some other assumption guarantee it?
* Do you believe that the convergence rates are optimal?
Could you use some other optimization method to get better rates?
Please see my review in the Weaknesses section for questions and suggestions.
- Given a fixed constant precision $p$ what is the bottleneck in creating the transformers that can approximate q-SA?
What if $z_i$s are themselves restricted to some $O(p)$ precision?
- Is the use of communication complexity in the approximability of Transformers (and broader Neural networks) novel in this work?
* It seems somewhat obvious that the representational capacity of performant Transformeres is related to the embedding space and operations for comparison performed on thus.
Have the authors experimented with different contexts aside from the embedding space?
My questions and suggestions are listed above.
Would the model maintain high performance in real-time environments, given the training was conducted in offline environments?
How much of the performance difference is due to the size of the model?
Can this method be easily adapted to take advantage of existing larger pretrained models?
(1) In Figure 2, step 3, why are there two overlapping ‘+’?
Does it mean the mouse is pressed down?
(2) This is not a serious issue, but some Figures are quite blurry (e.g., MiniWob++ examples in Figure1 and top row in Figure 2), is this due to the way the dataset is constructed?
- Hyperparameter on Webshop data: learning rate and optimizer details.
If these are similar to MiniWoB++, please add a note - Choose-date: what kind of mistakes model make ?
How does RL sampled data help with poor performing tasks?
- Fig 3: for how many steps did you train Ours (BC only) vs Ours ?
In particular, does BC training for additional steps help in improving BC baseline?
- Authors suggest that intermediate fine-tuning on MiniWoB++ helps for WebShop tasks.
Do they observe similar gains while using WebShop data for MiniWoB++ task?
Are the results of the proposed system statistically better than the other systems?
With what level of confidence?
Can you provide the standard deviations of the tests performed?
Typos: line 69: should be $f*\in F$.
line 16: should be "in detail".
* Given that assumption 8 is necessary to get from a $\epsilon_V^2$ to an $\epsilon_\star^2$ bound, how restrictive is this assumption?
Given dense results here, it would help reader to better understand the paper if the theorems could be summarized in a table.
I found that this paper is more suitable for conference like COLT instead of NIPS.
Audience from learning theory filed might be more interested in this topic.
In addition to address the comments raised in the weakness section above, please also considering clarifying the following questions.
For the synthetic dataset presented in 4.1, what type of interaction mechanisms is used in the ground truth generation of data, i.e.., the function of G?
Is it only additive, or multiplicative?
The adjacency matrix A defines which interaction?
Similarly, in the investigations based on the adjacency matrix in 4.2, which A's are being examined (A_a for additive interaction, or A_m for multiplicative interaction)?
It would be nice if the authors provided some theoretical analysis of why GNN based model can outperform the non-GNN-based model for neural forecasting.
Also, architecture complexity analysis is an interesting discussion.
After the introduction section, subsequent acronyms are not explicitly introduced or defined.
- TE and TR can be transformer or GRU.
Which one did you use for the results in the paper?
- Why is the improvement in multi-step forecasting comparatively moderate despite the impressive enhancements in one-step forecasting?
Intuitively, one would expect the performance gap between methods to increase with an increasing number of forecasting steps.
- How many steps are used in multi-step forecasting?
- RoBERTa in Table 2 is not mentioned in the caption
What component is responsible for the major performance improvements compared to existing approaches?
How does this approach do at capturing other information such as neural decoding?
Is there evidence that improving at this forecasting task will really improve other downstream tasks?
For AM-G with the non-learnable adjacency, do you use the initialized correlation?
How sensitive is performance to that choice?
- k-median++ (at least k-means++) initialization is known to be not always great empirically.
That's why the authors already in the first paper proposed a greedy variant (which is the one that is the default in the scikit implementation).
Why not compare with this one?
- Can you elaborate a little more what the main differences are between this and the cited work by Cohen Added et al?
They also use tree embeddings for fast initialization if I remember correctly.
Small things: - Intro l 35: wouldn't a naive adaptation of Lloyd work in general metrics?
- l 117: "in" - l 130-132: the choice of alpha should show up in the approximation guarantee (it is not exactly 5 right?) - l 280: "Following previous work, "
Why does Algorithm 4 guarantee differential privacy?
From my understanding, $\hat{N_v}$ constitutes a count query that should be protected with the Laplace mechanism (or Geometric mechanism).
I don't understand why $2^{(L−h_v)}$ is the sensitivity.
How were the parameters for the algorithms selected?
## Clarifications * The metric used in the human evaluation in Table 1 is not sufficiently clear.
Aren't the values in each column supposed to sum to 100?
* What is the Complex Concepts Prompts dataset mentioned in Fig 5?
## Suggestions * It would be easier for the reader to follow if the examples in Figure 4,5,6 are reorganized such that the references to them in the text are chronological.
Currently it requires the reader to keep going back and forth across the figures.
Was there a reason to not include numerical modifiers in the study?
Are there unexpected side-effects of such constraints on model generalization?
Apart from the question in weaknesses: 1.
Would SynGen still work for prompts like "an apple that is blue" or "a red apple on the left and another on the right"?
I may have missed this part but how do you deal with the padding tokens?
Table 2 shows that positive only and positive+negative have lower visual appeal percentages than negative only.
Does that imply that the positive loss will harm the visual appealing of the images?
- Have you looked at loss connectivity between the final parameters (at the end of training) and the initialization?
**Connection to the infinite width limit** While the current work focuses on finite-sized networks, some previous work investigated the infinite-width limit [64].
In particular, [64] claims that for the infinite-width limit, the learning dynamics *must be* the kernel regime for SP initialization (nevertheless, the learning dynamics does not progress or explodes).
How is this infinite-width study related to your results?
Since the critical learning rate of the kernel regime is given by $2/\lambda_{0}^{NTK}$, does this suggest that all $c_{loss,sharp,max}$ converge to 2 in the infinite width limit?
**Phase diagram in previous work** Related to [64], there are several studies on the phase diagram of convergence in the infinite width case (e.g.
and It would be better to mention them for giving a rich overview of the phase-diagram studies in the literature.
More related to the current work, the phase diagram for width v.s.
learning rate is also investigated in the literature ( This work implies that 2/$\lambda_{0}^{NTK}$ works as a critical learning rate of the convergence in the infinite width.
**The effect of early learning dynamics on eventual minima** I understand that the main focus of the current work is on the early training regime, but it is quite curious how the sharpness reduction, loss catapult, and loss-sharpness catapult phases determine the eventual generalization performance and sharpness of minima in the trained models.
If this point would be clarified, it would increase the significance of this paper much more.
It is shortly mentioned that setting the outputs of the network at initialization to zero changes the ranges of learning rates corresponding to the regimes of phase 1.
In the appendix, it appears that the transitions between ranges become almost independent of the width in this case, and the smallest range (where both loss and sharpness decrease) stops much closer to the expected value of $2 / \lambda_{max}$.
This suggests that the dependence of these values on the width $w$ which is quite thoroughly studied in the main paper, might only be related to the variance size of the outputs at initialization, and not some deeper property of the network.
Ideally I think that the plots of the appendix describing this phenomenon should be put in the main, as it greatly impacted my personal interpretation of the results of the paper.
Did the authors also check the behavior of the output function norm in the first few timesteps?
I was wondering whether the non-monotonic behavior at the begining of training might be related to the function norm having a similar non-monotonic behavior (scaling up then down, possibly to some value close to zero), since the function norm has an obvious impact on both the loss and sharpness of the loss.
I don't have any specific questions.
- In line 21, the paper says, "However, this is not relevant in practice: the cost of retraining the predictor would be prohibitive for many applications." I think saying it is "not relevant" is a bit too strong if there are still some scenarios to which it is applicable.
- For the minimizability gap $\mathcal{R}^*_l - \mathbb{E}\_{x}[\inf\_{h\in \mathcal{H}} \mathbb{E}\_{y | x}[\texttt{L}(h, x, y)]]$, why do we want to consider the point-wise infimum for the second term?
I think it is more natural to consider $\inf\_{h\in \mathcal{H}} \mathbb{E}\_{x, y}[\texttt{L}(h, x, y)]$.
- In lines 137-140, it is strange to "decompose" $\mathcal{H}$ as $\mathcal{H} = \mathcal{H}_p \times \mathcal{H}_d$ when $\mathcal{H}$ is a set of functions.
($\mathcal{H}_p \times \mathcal{H}_d$ is a set of function pairs.) - I think it's nicer to express, e.g., Eq.
Equations are unnecessarily long and hard to read especially in Table 2.
- Is Definition 4 correct?
(I think there is something wrong with the organization of the sentences.) - What do the symbols in the "Base cost" column in Table 4 mean?
- What does Accuracy in Table 4 mean?
They are not related to the deferral loss?
231-234, I could not understand this part: "In their proof, the authors choose $\bar h\_{\mu}$ based on individual scores $h(x, y)$, rather than the softmax.
Consequently, if $h(x)$ or the label $y_{\text{max}}$ that achieves the maximum conditional probability corresponds to the label zero, $\mu$ cannot be optimized since the score $h(x, 0)$ is fixed at $\lambda$."
$\mathcal{H}$ realizable consistent surrogates have not been proposed in the literature for single stage learning to defer with multiple experts.
Is it possible to utilise the results in this paper for that?
For example, maybe using iterative training procedure.
In synthetic data example, why did you choose to have more samples than dimensions ( $n>d$ )?
Since in that case GGM can be obtained with matrix inverse, and no need for penalized objective.
* In line 141, what do you mean by "contradiction"?
- in the frequentist case, how does the proposed framework compares against more classical techniques to obtain the solution paths, e.g., iterative reweighted l1-norm?
- For $\sigma = 0.04$ (red and green curves) Figure 6 seems to show that the the paper's method gives a worse certificate than randomized smoothing.
- Is it possible to find the radius of the largest $\ell_p$ ball centered at x that fits inside C(x)?
This will give a data-dependent spherical certificate at each point, which will be interesting.
Minor suggestions: - I think it is better to show the dependence on dimension for the constants $\epsilon, \delta$ in the main theorems of sections 2 and 3.
- The connections of the main theorem of section 4 to subspace clustering literature can probably be presented much earlier.
Currently, the paper only brings up this connection at the end of section 4.
Are there methods that try to approximate (1) by other means than uniform sampling?
There are many methods for numerical integration that might also use the fact that not all directions are equally useful in approximating the integral.
Why is it necessary to change the definition of (1) and not simply try to use a better method to approximate (1) numerically?
Does there exist a one-dimensional MI estimator with finite \delta(n)?
If not, can the supremum in the characterizing property of \delta(n) be restricted to a class where it is finite and all further results hold for this class?
There are multiple places where SI and $\mathcal{SI}$ are used interchangeably.
l.50 l.282 Table 1, l.331 and more.
The provided implementation is short scaffolding code and missing many important pieces which prevents further cross-check of the implementation against the claim in the paper.
- Could you please explain what is the definition of AUC that shown in this paper.
Does the evaluation treat as a binary classification of dependence and independence?
Since this metrics are used in at least two experiments, could you please put more words on this part?
- Many different mutual information estimator are mentioned in the paper, including the discriminator-based form and variational representation learning.
There are also many other mutual information estimator, why did the author choice MINE[1]?
- What neural estimator do you use in Table 1 DIM(MI)?
- How do you choose $\lambda_1$, $\lambda_2$, is there any ablation study on this part?
[1] Mutual Information Neural Estimation, 2021
- What exactly is the significance of the findings presented in this work?
What should be the main takeaway for researchers working on deep learning methodology for visual recognition, regarding how their future work should be affected by these findings?
Is it necessarily better if the "channel" (as defined in this paper) is more human-like, and if so, why?
- Given that filtered noise perturbation significantly alters the visual appearance of an image, so much so that it appears to be quite easy to identify images with such an attack, what is the significance of identifying the susceptibility to such attacks of adversarial-trained models (described in L298)?
- What is the significance of the current findings abound frequency sensitivity, in light of the fact that the effect of training dataset choice and some basic techniques could be used to improve it?.
How pervasive is this emerging phenomenon of a wider spatial frequency sensitivity of neural networks?
The x axis for peak noise sensitivity in Figure 6 seems incorrect, based on the definition in Figure 2F, For example, for humans, it looks to be 1/(0.03), or about 33.
It’s only after checking the supplementary material that this is made clear.
It’s actually 1/(0.02*2^A), where A is the fitted parameter.
This should be made clearer in the main text.
Did you use MTurk’s ratings of workers?
It seems like subjects 9 and 13 were only marginally engaged in the task.
I would have thrown them out.
I think you should reverse Figures 1 and 2.
Also (if possible) 5 & 6.
In both cases, you refer to the later one before the other.
I wonder whether the proposed method can still work well if the number of samples in different sites are NOT comparable.
There are some questions listed in "Weaknesses", and here are some other questions and typos: 1.
the definitions of $\hat{m}$ in (4) and (5) are inconsistent: in (4) it is an expectation conditional on V, while in (5) it is conditioned on X.
Line 213: $\bar{\mu}$ not defined 3.
In section 5.1, should specify the range of $k$, should it contain $k=T$?
Theorem 3 mentions that some regularity conditions needed are provided in appendix, but I cannot easily find them (if exists).
The authors should explicitly list them in the appendix before the proof of theorem 3.
In the proof of theorem 3, the authors invoke lemma 4 of [12] to show the uncertainty introduced by $\hat{\eta}$ is negligible, but the definition of $\hat{\eta}$ in [12] is different from this paper, since the optimization problem is different, why can lemma 4 still work for this paper?
- How do SSE and StarSSE compare when starting out with a large pre-trained network?
For instance if the authors want to stick to image experiments than a pre-trained CLIP model is a good starting point.
Here, you can already start out with a good "zero-shot" model.
- How might the results change when using techniques to mitigate overfitting -- it seems like there is overfitting in some of the experiments.
Q1(Weakness 1): How does StarSSE perform on additional downstream datasets, especially non-natural ones?
Q2 (Weakness 2): How does StarSSE compared to "diversifed Local DE's" (line 144)?
With adequate addressing of these questions, I'd be willing to bump my score.
* Could the authors provide some explanation for the following sentences: * Line 108-109, “During sampling, $p(\lambda)$ provides the relative amount of time the sampler spends at different noise levels.” It’s not immediately clear what it means, as it seems that by sampling $t\sim U(0,1)$, each noise level has an equal chance of being sampled.
* Line 179-180, “The probability distribution $p_w(t)$ has Dirac delta peak of typically very small mass $w(0)$ at $t = 0$.” Does this mean that the almost noiseless sample contributes very little to the objective computation?
* Line 262-265: have the authors run experiments for a $v$-prediction model combined with a non-monotonic weighting function?
* In Figure 1 Right, only the “EDM sampling” noise schedule has $p(\lambda)$ monotonically decreasing as a function of $\lambda$.
Is there any interpretation of that, $e.g.$, advantages for the EDM sampling scheme to monotonically decrease?
* It’s a bit confusing on why the noise schedule is casted as a probability distribution $p(\lambda_t)$ (besides the importance sampling interpretation): $e.g.$, the cosine schedule has the variance at each timestep as a deterministic function of time.
Why does $\lambda$ need to be sampled – is it because timesteps need to be sampled during training?
• On the first few reads of the paper, I thought the goal was to show which tools are best at identifying backdoors in DNNs (the title of the paper further corroborates this interpretation).
If that is the case, I would have many questions about why we should care about these artificial tasks rather than, say, a cryptographic planted sequence that can't be inspected or interpreted visually.
After several reads, I think what you actually care about is just evaluating how good these "humanly interpretable" tools are, and the trojan task is just a proxy for this.
This was not obvious to me and I would suggest a better title and a clearer intro to better emphasize the goal of your paper.
• I wasn't sure about the details of your human study.
Was it 100 participants per method or 10 per method?
It would also be great to see some error bars here.
- I think it would be really helpful to understand how Cappy compares to other parameter efficient adaptation methods.
Do you have any experiments that indicate that Cappy is e.g.
comparable to prompt-tuning in terms of it's benefits?
- Can you provide an analysis of how much additional computation is required to sample many generations for Cappy to score?
- Also, do you know how Cappy's performance scales with the number of generated samples?
does it's performance flatten out after only 4 samples, or can it's performance increase significantly if several generations are considered?
Please address the weakness raised in ***Weaknesses**.
Line 303: FTS: Freq-TS I can change my score based on the authors' responses.
I included some minor questions in the weaknesses section.
I have no major questions for the authors.
As stated in the weakness part.
I am curious about how is the prompt designed in this paper?
The detail of the prompt should be explained in the main text of the paper.
Did you try or have results with synthetic data with > 3 attributes?
Why did you not use synthetic data with real objects instead of colors and shapes?
Verifying your claims on even a small real-object dataset would make the paper much more robust and useful.
I might have missed this detail, what is the size of the test set, did you look at only the “pink” examples in the figures?
- Why only the first Eigen vector?
Is the methods that is being compared with in sec 4.2 the only other methods that can solve the SCF problems?
Are there any other real-world problems other than electronic structures where this methodology can be used?
Non-stationary time series?
Is it possible to explain the intuition behind the role of F?
It would help the paper to have an idea what the "typical role" of F in systems such as these is.
(maybe this is not possible, but I still ask...) What is DIIS?
I did not see the introduction to this and it seems like it suddenly popped up without a definition.
Could you please expand the last paragraph of the conclusion section on how this is a contribution to machine learning?
* How does the dimensionality (e.g., choosing $d=100$) come into play?
The story setting up the analogy does not in principle rely on the dimensionality all, just the gradient sizes of the noisy and true signals.
I'm guessing it has something to do with interpolation, but I think it'd be good to have further discussion of this.
* What's the connection between the neural network trained in section 2.1 and the linear model theorems?
What happens if you train a logistic regression model instead?
* Similar toy settings as in this paper (such as (Sagawa et al., 2020)) have been examined in the past and seemed to rely on overparameterization for their phenomena.
What are the particulars in this paper's setup that allow us to observe phenomena in the underparameterized setting?
* How should I think of the different MARG-CTRL?
What factors cause their difference in performance and how should I make the decision in which to pick?
-How does MARG-CTRL perform in scenarios where the shortcut features and the stable features are highly correlated?
Does this affect the effectiveness of MARG-CTRL?
-What are the trade-offs involved in using MARG-CTRL versus two-stage shortcut-mitigating methods??
-Are there specific scenarios or types of tasks for which MARG-CTRL may not be as effective?
* The examples in the paper tend to be restricted to linear models, which is not the case in most perception systems, do you have any intuition if these conclusions carry through to a non-linear case?
I'm aware it makes the analysis harder, and I'm not asking you to perform it.
But it would be nice to hear any issues that may arrise.
* Are there any experiments in the non over-parameterised setting?
As this is discussed in the paper, I would have expected to see them in the experiments.
* Do you think these shortcuts are a bit artifificial?
For instance in the waterbirds dataset, the background should be an important feature in the decision, but not the primary feature, does this method enable predictions from multiple features?
Or do you think it will just rely on one?
According to Fig 2a,c deeper layers don’t seem to be dominated by global heads as WO attention score is higher than WP?
Analysis of some models are missing in Fig 2 (e.g DINO Discrimination and Imagenet pretrained ViTs).
Can the authors also perform the same analysis for ViTs pretrained using masked autoencoding objective [1]?
Are the results in Fig 6 averaged for all models?
Masked autoencoders are scalable vision learners.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp.
- What would the same analysis methods result when applied on real world images or more complex reasoning tasks such as ARC-AGI?
- Can you compare the mechanistic interpretation result with other text-based interpretability methods such as logic lens?
- How to improve relational reasoning capability in vision models?
What are implications of such potential improvements?
- How would success or failure in relational reasoning impact CLIP in terms of embedding's alignment with text descriptions?
ln 23-24, the motivation "little breakthrough progress on complex tasks involving relations between visual entities..." is that true?
What about the recent breakthroughs or datasets of vision-language models, Llava, GPT4, etc.
Please give more explanations.
ln 41, please define what are "algorithms" learned by ViT, and are there algorithms learned by other architectures, CNNs, LSTMs, etc.?
Are there no existing datasets that can study the relations of visual entities?
I mean in general, not the RMTS, etc.
The motivation of using CLIP ViTs for study is not clear.
Since part of the motivation is from infant learning, why not use more human-like CNN like ConvNext?
Also, CLIP ViT is different from ViT as well.
Vaguely remember [1] discussed about using better disentangled model for generalization and color, are there new insights from Sec 6?
With the 2 stage processing, what would you suggest the architecture to change to build a more "robust" version?
--------- [1] Better may not be fairer?
I am curious about the potential impact of CLIP's text co-training, in contrast to DINO's image-only training, on their respective performances when fine-tuned for same-different tasks.
Specifically, I wonder if CLIP's joint training on images and captions forces its embedding space (particularly in the later layers) to deviate from purely visual representations to accommodate textual information as well.
Could this difference in training approaches be a significant factor in explaining their divergent behaviors on visual reasoning?
In that case, the the perpetual/reasoning phases probably not a property of ViT (as title suggested) but a product of transformer combined with multi-modality.
- How efficient the model is as the number of constraints increases?
Each time the model updates the duality variables, it needs to train a diffusion model, which is slow.
- how the proposed method differs from existing constrained generative models, for example [1].
How sensitive is the method to hyperparameter choices?
latent dimensionality - split between invariant and variable part How does the model scale/what is the computational overhead?
an example that measures, besides similarity metrics, if the resulting representations/data have truly captured the group symmetry (e.g., measuring variability of output/representations given different inputs)
Please see the weaknesses.
Besides, I would like to know the reason why the proposed method is better at PSNR on Brain MRI dataset compared to [13].
Firstly, this dataset does not contain any 'occlusions', which means it may be difficult to demonstrate the advantages of the proposed method on this dataset.
And the authors also find 'it is difficult to determine a noticeable advantage visually'.
Then why the proposed method shows much better performance on PSNR?
Why is the Rank and Contrast loss effective in this task?
Specifically, how does it differ from other contrastive-loss-based methods like CEBRA?
I believe the paper would benefit if a more detailed description were given to the method section, especially a description of RNC and how your method adapted it and could be different from it.
- It seems to me that the condition learning rate $\eta<\frac{2}{\beta\sigma_{\textrm{max}}^2(X)}$ could be strong for dataset $X$ with a large spectral norm.
I’m curious if it is more of a necessity for the proof, or the numerical experiments do require this condition to have directional convergence?
Maybe a minor typo: in Assumption 3.3, line 171, $k$ should not be there.
- Equation after line 200, first line: the equality seems wrong to me because I would expect a factor $\log(1+t^{-1})$ multiplying $\lVert\hat{w}\rVert$, but it is not there.
Furthermore, I do not understand either how we get the inequality simply by showing that the third term is negative, since there is an extra $t^{-2}$ factor multiplying $\lVert\hat{w}\rVert$.
- Line 262: Why is $u_{\pm}=0$, while in Def.
- Lines 609 to 611: I understand from the argument that *at least one* component of $u$ must converge to $\infty$, because indeed $\nabla\phi(u)\prec0$ for all finite $u$, but why do *all* the components of $u$ have to converge to $\infty$?
I am curious to learn more about the author's thoughts on perpetual data machines, and the comparison to self-refine papers.
Please answer the weakness section
Please see my above concerns for particular questions.
- open-source vs open-weight.
Be careful with the distinction!
L54) - How would GPT-4 perform if trained on synatra?
Is synatra limited to distilling agent-capability from stronger models to weaker models?
What stopped you from finetuning GPT-4 or GPT-3.5 on synatra?
- In 6.3 you write that you "conducted a detailed examination" comparing synatra with GPT-4, but I can't seem to find the analysis.
As prior work [0] suggested, maybe only a small number of examples is needed, which pushes the trade-off towards obtaining smaller quantities of high-quality human-annotated data instead of large quantities of synthetic data.
"LIMA: Less Is More for Alignment.
arXiv, Article." arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.11206 (2023).
It appears that there are some parameters in the paper that have not been defined.
In line 194, "p" is used without definition.
In equation (7), \kappa is referenced without definition.
In line 206, it's unclear what "p(r)" represents.
If we carefully engineer prompts for VLMs to sequentially focus and analyze each object in an image, considering they can learn a compositional representation as claimed, thus they should theoretically possess all the elements necessary to solve the binding problem?
Can you elaborate on that?
Figure 2 caption: "Performance for 2D and 3D task variants" -- performance of what?
I also suggest in that caption that you should say what the targets are for each search (red circle, red "L", red sphere, red sphere).
In Section 3.1., explain what the task is for GPT-4V: "Is there a red circle?" "Is there a red L?
This is explained in the appendix (A.2) but should be explained here in the main paper.
Looking at the visual search task as described in A.2, it seems that the task wasn't actually "search" in the sense that, unlike humans, GPT-4V doesn't have to localize the target object.
In these kinds of tasks, aren't humans asked to localize the target?
How does this affect the comparability of the results between GPT-4V and humans on this task?
In Section 3.1, explain why in half the images, targets were left out.
This doesn't make sense unless readers know what the specific task is.
In Section 3.1 you say "VLMs demonstrate similar capacity constraints to humans." What do you mean by "similar"?
Do humans show a similar success/failure curve as those in Figure 2?
Or is the similarity just that humans perform well on disjunctive search and badly on conjunctive search (if not enough time for serial processing)?
In Section 3.2, explain how the "accuracy" of the model is calculated.
In Section 4.2 you refer to "the true description of the scene".
Where did this "true description" come from?
Also, define "edit distance".
I was also confused because each scene could have different correct descriptions with different levels of detail.
Was it possible that the VLM gave one version of a correct description but it was counted as wrong because it included details that the "true description" didn't contain?
I was also confused by the visual analogy task in Figure 4.
It seems to me that both Target Pair 1 and Target Pair 2 could be considered the correct answer.
The source pair has two obvious relations: "same star shape" and "different color".
The former would map to Target 1 and the latter would map to Target 2.
Which Target did you consider correct, and why?
- Figure 1: There is a spike at 9 objects for both models.
Do you have an idea on why this might be the case?
[1] (which you already cite) also find the same spike and offer some potential explanations for this (see Figure 5).
- Answer parsing is again conducted by a large language model.
I am wondering how accurate this parsing is.
Did you compute any metrics to check the accuracy of the final parsed output or run some qualitative checks?
- In line 189 you write "GPT-4v demonstrates human-like capacity constraints in its ability to perform visual search in multi-object settings." I was wondering what human level performance is in this task?
It would be nice to have some more information to compare the model performance to.
The same is true for line 127, where I'm not sure this is a fair comparison.
Sure, the number of objects the models can count well are somewhat similar to the subitizing limit of humans, but this task should not require rapid estimation of the number of objects and therefore we would expect humans to be able to count well above 6 objects here anyways.
- The sentence in line 303 reads a bit odd, it should probably read "facilitate generalization" instead of facilitation and there might be a comma missing before?
- If I understand correctly you describe a different measure for the model performance for the last task in Section 4.2, would it not be possible to again report the proportion of correct answers here?
I find it hard to compare this experiment with the previous experiments.
- To me the take aways seem overstated.
What does lack of serial processing for VLMs mean?
I don't think VLMs are fundamentally unable to sequentially process an image and therefore they should in theory be able to "selectively attend to individual objects one at a time".
This is also why I don't completely follow the conclusion that the VLMs show "human-like capacity constraints".
I would argue they should be able to do sequential processing and should therefore not be measured against the human subitizing limit anyways.
Maybe you can offer some more details on this argument.
[1] Rane, S., Ku, A., Baldridge, J., Tenney, I., Griffiths, T., & Kim, B.
Can Generative Multimodal Models Count to Ten?
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, 46.
One of the main motivations of this paper is to consider the matrix completion problem under the semi-random setting, which is a more realistic setting than uniformly random.
Meanwhile, the paper mentions, “both our dependence and the dependence of [16] are somewhat large at the moment, limiting immediate practical deployment”.
I understand the difficulties of making theoretical breakthroughs, but since this paper is motivated by the practical setting, I want to ask, how much work is still needed before the practical deployment.
A minor comment: Each definition, theorem, and proposition should be more self-contained.
There are some notations in these blocks that should be more explicitly defined.
What are the challenges, if any, to extending the results to an adaptive adversary?
For example, consider an adversary that perhaps samples several entries of $M$ with probability $p$, then upon seeing the sampled entries, reveals an extra arbitrary set of their choice?
I ask these because it seems suggested that the algorithm you presented actually does work in such a settings (lines 54-62), but I don't see something in Definition 2 to this effect.
How do you prove the proposed approximation is, in general, faithful to the ground-truth explanation results from the actual explanation models?
Why would the proposed approach to be useful if the explanation is off from the ground-truth?
- For applying stochastic amortization to a new XML task, how should practitioners determine an appropriate error level from a practical perspective?
- Regarding line 99, "while there are works that accelerate data attribution with datamodels, we are not aware of any that use amortization".
Could datamodels themselves be considered a form of amortized optimization (linear regression model)?
- What guidelines can you provide for defining the architecture for amortization (e.g., ResNet) in practice?
Did you observe significant differences with various architectures?
Should the architecture be similar to the base model?
- In Figure 4 (right), why does the correlation decrease for MC as the number of data points increases (intuitively, I expected correlation to remain relatively flat for both MC and amortized approaches, assuming a constant number of samples per point)?
There is another similar class of backdoors, called architectural backdoors that are similar to the one proposed by this paper, except they do construct circuits for encrypted payloads (see [1]).
Could you contrast this work from [1]?
For instance, if an ML expert were to inspect the model definition or the computational graph and look for SHA implementations, would the proposed defense still work?
There have been a number of techniques for watermarking the content and models that utilize similar cryptographic constructions recently [2].
Could you comment on how similar your approach is for backdooring, and if it has similar properties as these works?
Can you clarify how encoding the 3-SAT problem in the transformer circuit yields an encoding to average-case LWE problems?
[1] Bober-Irizar, Mikel, et al.
"Architectural backdoors in neural networks." Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
[2] Christ, Miranda, Sam Gunn, and Or Zamir.
"Undetectable watermarks for language models." The Thirty Seventh Annual Conference on Learning Theory.
nitpick on clarity: are "corrupted output" in 4.2 and "harmful payload" in 4.1 the same thing?
If no, what is the difference?
If yes, it would be more clear if consistent terminology were used.
- More evaluations on the methods's robustness against mitigations mentioned in section 5.2 limitations would be helpful to understand the method's implication of LLM safety area.
- In the same section, the author mentions that adding noises to weights or change weights by finetuning can mitigate the issue.
One potential way of showing the method's effectiveness is measuring how much weight change is needed for the method to fail, and how much model performance reduction will the mitigations result in.
- In section 4 line 186, the paper claims that the addition of backdoor modules cannot be detected from looking at computational graph.
Can the authors elaborate more on why it cannot be detected?
- Does the backdoor insertion alter original model behavior/quality?
More evaluation on that would be helpful.
- Does the backdoor insertion effectiveness depend on type of trigger message and harmful message?
What are the practical applications of encrypted backdoor attacks?
What models and datasets were utilized in the experimental setup?
A few questions below that I would like to see answered.
- **PCA variance.** Given this is a rather rich geometry in 2-D, I'm slightly surprised to see PCA captured it.
Did you have to do some preprocessing?
How much variance is explained by the two projected components?
If there are other components that are not shown but have a large variance, what do those components encode---can you try 3D plots?
- **What does the MLP do?** Given the mechinterp focused on attention solely, it is unclear what role MLPs played.
Two experiments to try here are: (i) train attention only models to see if MLPs are even necessary, and (ii) perform the PCA analysis to uncover representations' geometry at the level of attentions and MLPs at each block in the model.
Experiment (i) may require retraining models, so I understand if the authors are unable to conduct it, but my expectation will be that you will see that model "internalizes" task vectors and records them in MLPs.
Attention only models can solve the task, but I expect the representations' geometry will be quite different.
For experiment (ii) however, I expect that's easy to run and is merely repeating the plotting script on intermediate representations as a forward pass occurs through the model.
If the geometry is primarily formed at attention layers, we'll see that in this experiment; vice versa, if it forms via MLPs, we'll see it explicitly.
Since multiplication can be viewed as repeated addition, isn’t skill 2 an extension of skill 3 (or can even be viewed as skill 3 composed with itself multiple times)?
Is hierarchy of skills important here?
Why is the title 'learning to grok'?
* Is this meant in the sense that the grokking of a modular addition task is occurring in-context?
If so, this seems a little inaccurate, since the phenomenon analogous to 'grokking' seems to still be occurring during pre-training.
* To be honest this part of the title has puzzled me since I first looked at the paper.
Even if my understanding above is wrong and the title has an accurate interpretation, that I have failed to notice it might be one data point suggesting that if you are going for a title that is both short *and* informative, this might not be the right choice.
In the figure 1 caption, is it possible to offer a clearer summary of the difference between in-distribution generalisation and out-of-distribution memorisation?
On my first read through, treating the figure and caption as an overview of the work's main results, I had trouble distinguishing these two concepts.
- The paper claims in line 147 that “As the o.o.d.
performance increases, the pre-training performance simultaneously degrades “.
However, it is hard to read this information from Figure 3-a panel 1.
Maybe a different color mapping or adding numbers on these patches would be helpful.
- Equation 2 is a bit hard to understand.
How does it correlate to $z = ax+by$ ?
(Although, from the latter explanations, I know the model relies on $c_1z_1^t + c_2z_2^t$ to get $z$, but it might be helpful to claim how it is derived.) - Better to define $GF(p)$, i.e., the Galois field, before using it.
- Are the results in Figure 6 coming from $d=2$ or $d=4$?
I can find the figure for all 8 attention heads for $d=2$ in the appendix, what about the $d=4$ case?
It might be helpful to see if the pattern in later layers (i.e., attention focusing on different $z_i$) exists in shallow layers, and vice versa.
- In line 264, the paper claims that the pattern depends on $(a,b)$, but it is hard to read that from Figure 6b.
- As also mentioned in the strength part, is it possible to find some specific value in the weight space (e.g., attention weights, readout layers, etc.) that is highly correlated to $c_1, c_2$?
If so, the hypothesis that the model first learns skill 2 (scale each example) and then skill 3 (weighted combine different examples) would be further verified.
- The OOD settings studied in grokking or emergent ability setting are quite related to the compositional generalization and systematic generalization.
It would be helpful to discuss them in the related works, here are some of them: [1] Schott, Lukas, et al.
"Visual representation learning does not generalize strongly within the same domain." ICLR 2022 [2] Xu, Zhenlin, Marc Niethammer, and Colin A.
"Compositional generalization in unsupervised compositional representation learning: A study on disentanglement and emergent language." NeurIPS 2022 [3] Ren, Yi, et al.
"Improving compositional generalization using iterated learning and simplicial embeddings." NeurIPS 2023
Authors have put summaries at the end of each experiments.
However, do the authors have a clearer guidelines for what practitioners should do under each "nuanced" scenarios, or just suggest there are more "nuanced" scenarios?
Datasets authors used are all binary classifications, except MultiNLI (trinary), what would the nuances look like in a realistic multi-class setting?
Would it create more nuances?
[1] has an not ideal but acceptable multi-class dataset with group labels.
What would the nuances look like in a ViT or its variants setting?
As ViTs are know to require significant pretraining and downstream finetuning.
--------------------------------------- [1] Spawrious [Lynch, et.
* Why was [1] referenced in Sec 3.2?
* Why was [2] not referenced in Sec.
* What motivates the authors' choice to focus on subsetting and oversampling in Secs 3 and 4, and on spectral imbalance in 5, rather than a more general investigation of their proposed method's efficacy or a simple analysis of subsetting and oversampling in group robustness?
SUMMARY As the paper stands, I think it is a weak accept; all of the contributions seem to be well supported by the evidence, but none of them seem likely to have an overwhelming impact.
I will consider raising my score, however, if the weaknesses I mention are addressed.
Did you tune the mixture ratio?
Why don't you compare to other class balancing techniques apart from subsetting and oversampling?
Have you tried other datasets or other group-imbalance settings?
Suggest to delete spurious statements such as “We had tried our best to make current UED methods work for our setting before going back to the basics and developing our new scoring function, which took a few days and worked out-of-the-box.
We hope our lessons and learnings will help others spend their time more wisely.” Don’t complain!
The authors should make an effort to assist readers familiar with RL but not ACL methods by providing details in the appendix.
For example in line 175, Algorithm 1 does not provide information on how \phi is updated.
The update algorithm could be provided in the appendix.
Figure 2 includes statements about “learnability” prior to a definition of learnability.
Learnability has not yet been defined so statements about slight/no correlation with learnability are vacuous.
It is not clear to reader whether learnability in these lines/Figure 2 is the same as the definition of learnability given later (and used by SLR).
Lines 133-135 might better go in the later section on weaknesses/limitations.
The authors do not define “solvable.” The reader needs to know how you are operationalizing this term.
Unclear what “perfect regret” means.
Table 4 showcases compute times for each evaluated approach.
Most of these approaches have similar components, except maybe SFL's extra rollout phase.
So why is SFL one of the fastest?
The method is conditioned on previous images, how about the computational cost, as the method will use all previous slices?
The efficiency of the proposed method should be horrible as it is a drawback of the autoregressive model, is this correct?
As the cost is high, can the AIM model be constructed in the latent space?
QUESTIONS * How do the authors define *interpolating* neural networks in this work?
* Can the authors please expand on the point raised in W5?
SUMMARY OF THE REVIEW This paper presents significant new theoretical contributions in its area, which is important and of interest to the larger community, but has a few overclaims and oversights which currently limit it.
As the paper stands, I will give a weak accept, but if the weaknesses I list are addressed, I will raise my score.
The description of Theorem 1 as a lower bound in line 127 is somewhat misleading.
As mentioned later in the paper, models can be polarized for $\eta$ lower than the derived bound.
I wonder if the wording here can be improved.
I do not quite see the connection to neural collapse in line 159.
Neural collapse describes the phenomenon that representations of examples from the same class collapse to a single point and the class means form a simplex ETF.
Still, it does not state how the probabilities of any given example are distributed among the labels.
In theorem 5, what is $\sigma^2$?
And what is the significance of the scaled random walk converging to Brownian motion?
As far as I can tell, the convergence to Brownian motion is a restatement of a standard result from stochastic calculus and is not used anywhere else in the paper.
In the definition of $\mathcal{L}(h)$ in line 215, it appears that the symbol $h$ is overloaded.
On the point of polarity, it would be good to get more details around the discussion in the Remark on Lines 139-145.
The specific questions I have on this are noted in the point above.
Regarding my point on empirical analysis, did the trained classifier ensemble consist of classifiers with just different starting points or were other training details/parameters changed?
Minor point, but $\delta$ notation is used in both Theorem 1 (for probability) and Theorems 3, 4 (for disagreement).
And it looks like this notation is used in different contexts in these different results.
Might be good to use different notations at different places if they are not related.
- Why does the second term, which was estimated without noise, lose its importance when noise is introduced?
The authors did not address this point.
- Why did the authors not explicitly explore the interaction between the estimated plasticity rule and a subsequent supervised learning procedure, despite strongly hinting at this in the introduction?
- Are networks using the estimated rule more effective at reproducing songs than those employing a traditional Hebbian rule?
- Why was the decoding of time not reported throughout the paper, given that the reduction of loss could be influenced by three different factors?
- Could you clarify why the estimated rule is considered a temporally generalised Oja’s rule?
2.2.1 are somewhat meaningless, because one can always run more simulations to decrease the p-value.
I would recommend quantifying effect size (with e.g.
Please define important terms at first use (e.g.
What is $\mathcal{P}(\textbf{C})$ in L.
References 4, 5, 11 and 28 are misformatted.
- How many fitness evaluation through CMA-ES were performed?
How much time did one evaluation take?
How did the fitness evolve over time?
- Following up from a point in the weakness.
How can these findings be used?
Is there a recommendation that we should use evolution to implement and tune artificial spiking neural networks?
In Table 2, do you compare the Boxrouter’s routing results?
In Table S2, why the correctness rate is 100%.
Is it due to the small problem size?
- Given that the training set is within HPWL <= 128 or the scale of 64x64, how are NeuralSteiner and HubRouter applied to ISPD07 cases with much larger scales?
- Besides the case newblue03 which is already included in the training dataset, I note that the performance of wirelength and overflow in Table 2 is also pretty good for the case ‘newblue1’, outperforming most traditional approaches.
However, the overflow for the case ‘ibm01’ is 2033 in Table 3, which is much higher than traditional methods.
What are the inherent reasons for this?
For instance, the overflow for ‘ibm01’ and ‘newblue1’ are 0 and 400 respectively, while the corresponding results for NeuralSteiner are 2033 and 5.
- Based on the above question, I am curious about what the WL and overflow are for newblue01 and newblue03 when using CUGR, the approach used to generate the expert routing dataset.
- Is the RST construction conducted by Python or C++?
- Will the code be made available upon acceptance of the paper?
The methodology presented in this work appears to align closely with prior works, such as Hubrouter, and employs trivial techniques.
Could you please elaborate on the unique technical contributions of your study?
The primary aim of this paper is to optimize overflow during the construction of the Steiner tree, a process that occurs prior to routing.
However, there tends to be a significant difference between pre-routing and post-routing overflow.
Additionally, most routing tools will also take overflow reduction into account.
Hence, optimizing pre-routing overflow may not yield significant benefits.
Could you please shed some light on this?
In Section 3.4, could you clarify how the congestion value O(x,y) in Eq.
From which stage are the O(x,y) values extracted?
How are points that do not satisfy the two conditions handled?
How are the values of the weights w_d and w_o in Eq.
The paper lacks clarity regarding the evaluation metrics used.
Could you specify the stage from which the overflow values are extracted, for instance, is it immediately after RST construction or after global placement?
Could you also share the tool used for global routing during testing and whether it considers congestion?
It would be beneficial if the authors could provide a comprehensive description of the test flow, including the source of the inputs, how the proposed framework integrates with the routing tool, and the stage from which the evaluation metrics are extracted.
The results in Table 3 seems wield.
The data suggests that overflow loss reduces both overflow and wirelength, which is unusual as these two metrics typically have a trade-off.
If overflow loss is designed to reduce overflow, it should result in an increase in wirelength.
Could you provide some clarification on this?
I'm interested to know the number of Steiner points inserted by the proposed method.
This is crucial as simple methods can also reduce overflow by adding more Steiner points to circumvent congested regions.
However, an increase in Steiner points could significantly limit the optimization space of the subsequent routing process.
Could you please include the number of Steiner points in the results tables?
To enhance reader comprehension, could you provide an example of an actual solution?
Please check the weakness part.
- In section 4.1, “Note that for TorchHub and TensorHub, we evaluate all the models using AST tree accuracy score.
*However, for HuggingFace, since the dataset is not exhaustive, for all the models except Gorilla, we only check if they can provide the correct domain names.*” is vague.
The numbers of data for HF, TFH, and TH are 925, 801, and 95, respectively.
- Table 1 shows that TorchHub is hard to even with oracle API documents compared to HuggingFace and TensorFlowHub.
`his suggests` - (suggestions) Please elaborate more on Table 2 — e.g., the caption and highlights.
Moreover, it’s hard to connect between the written explanation and the table, due to different numbers.
- (suggestions) Absence of mentioning the full name of AST (Abstract Syntax Tree)
(I asked majority of questions along with the listed weaknesses) - Typo in Figure 3 caption: “SocialIQa” -> “Social IQa”
(Table 1): Could you define what BM25 means?
It wasn’t clear to me from the paper exactly how you performed the benchmarks and how you chose the benchmark settings to ensure fair comparison.
(Line 91): What does silver-quality mean?
(Table 3 and Figure 2): It wasn’t clear from the paper whether the model generated meaningfully different programs.
Footnote 3 (from Line 231) suggests that the model likely generated very similar outputs (assuming lower temperature means more deterministic outputs).
(Line 103): Few questions about ‘fuzzy’ premitives.
Does the model come up with its own fuzzy primitive operations, or do they all need to be predefined by the engineer or GPT4?
How did you determine what level of granularity was appropriate for the dataset?
Does the model ever produce fuzzy primitives that were not included in the dataset by GPT4 and if so, how does the model deal with it?
(Line 187) Could you provide the actual SD or the 95% interval?
(Figure 2) Could you include baselines for these tasks, e.g.
results from the off-the-shelf Llama-2 13B on these problems.
(It’s hard to tell if the linear trends are misguiding for me or not because the x-axis is in log-scale while the y-axis is in raw percentages.
Logit-scale for y-axis could potentially be more informative.) 7.
(S3.4) Do you observe instances where the generated program is incorrect but the model still gets the problems correct?
In other words, does the model actually follow the incorrect program or does the model ignore it?
Did you try few-shot with the Alpaca (instruction-tuned) models that you used zero-shot in the paper?
Is the PEN dataset only corresponding to one underlying program?
What are the insights of PEN and PERM these two datasets?
Why is the random perturbation vector z sampled from a normal distribution with zero mean and standard deviation?
Is it possible to sample from a log-normal distribution since activation gradients are shown to be distributed near log-normal [1]?
[1] Chmiel, Brian, et al.
"Neural gradients are near-lognormal: improved quantized and sparse training." arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.08173 (2020).

========== FULL (2623) ==========
Thank you for replying to my review.
If the extra space is used to explain and discuss the results more, I would be more inclined to accept the paper.
I also propose to discuss more in depth the fact that on true natural language data and models the method may not give conclusive results due to the enormous complexity and variation in causal reasoning that are required for natural language based tasks.
I thank the authors for engaging with my review.
Upon revisiting the paper after reading the author response, my questions were largely resolved and I changed my overall rating accordingly.
I can see now how this work comes together considering this overall framing.
The only remaining concerns are with the limited presentation of the results in the paper and that I believe the paper would benefit from the extra discussion the authors indicate they intend to include.
I appreciate the authors' detailed responses.
As the experimental results, the proposed method shows strong performance.
The response to the technical novelty is not convincing and novelty cannot be addressed by the response unless there exists any misunderstanding.
Although this paper has limited technical contributions, this is an early attempt for molecule generation, showing great performance.
I would like to thank the authors for addressing my questions and providing additional results.
Overall, these empirical results provide greater clarification; particularly, human evaluation results.
I would strongly urge the authors to include them in the paper.
Additionally, a more elaborate discussion along the lines of a more signifcant safety vector in larger models, would be helpful in encouraging future research on the topic.
I have increased my score accordingly.
1.1 I hope the authors can expose the details and the results in the next version.
A sentence of "We attempted our best efforts in tuning the baselines" is very ambiguous:) However, I found the result surprising (less rigorous step-by-step CoT outperforming the more rigorous one) and believe that more discussions are needed.
1.2 I'm sorry for the cost concern, but an experiment using GPT-4 makes more sense and will certainly tell people how much needed the CoS is.
1.3 The answer is not convincing.
The original NLVR was designed to evaluate visional reasoning, including spatial reasoning, but the NLVR-Manipulation in experiments as I understand was annotated by the authors.
Based on examples in the paper, the kind of spatial reasoning it needs is very shallow.
The Natural Language Navigation benchmark was also created by the authors, not any prior work, hence "they are both representative benchmarks" is very misleading.
Thanks for the justification.
I increased my score as parts of my concerns were addressed.
Thank you for your clarifications.
I'm glad to hear CoT correctness was determined manually.
Please make that clear in the paper too.
Regarding this: > Faithful recovery and unfaithful recovery are reported as absolute quantities, not as a proportion of all recoveries.
1 - (faithful + unfaithful) is the rate of non-recovery responses.
You label y-axis with "Faithful Recovery **(%)**" and "Unfaithful Recovery **(%)**" (emphasis mine).
Using the percentage symbols for absolute quantities, especially when the total count per error is 100, is misleading.
The absolute values also make it hard to compare these faithful recovery rates across error types.
Thank you for your response.
> Our current study focused on artificial errors so that we can carefully control the experimental conditions, and eliminate any possible confounds While this is a possible direction for analysis, I believe that artificial errors should try to mimic actual errors made by recent LLMs to provide useful observations.
Characterize the types of errors current high-performing models actually make on various reasoning tasks.
I agree this point should be added to your paper.
I look forward to seeing the updated version.
I have updated my review accordingly.
I suggest to more explicitly distinguish the presented work from earlier work in the introduction of the paper, incorporating those points raised in the rebuttal.
I also believe the paper would benefit from emphasizing the mentioned point of how mass-mean probing differs from LDA.
I still strongly agree with reviewer jLEs that the curated dataset is not a significant contribution of the work, and I believe it would make sense to put less emphasis on the dataset as a contribution.
Finally, I'm still not sure I exactly understand your answer to Q2.
My suggestion would be to use more explicit wording e.g.
possibly change "the LLM believes F is true" to "the truthfulness of F is linearly encoded in the hidden state of the LLM" to make it more clear what "believes" is being used to refer to here.
The current wording is likely ambiguous.
I think most of the clarifications make sense.
RE: calibrated few-shot, I think what I was trying to get at is slightly different because if I understood correctly, this still concerns true/false classification.
I was wondering if there could be some evaluation that could tell us if preconditions for being able to determine truth/falsehood are satisfied or not (the method I mentioned might not be best instantiation of this).
I might be misunderstanding something here though.
That being said, my score was already positive to begin with, and I'm happy with keeping it positive.
I have updated my evaluation on the basis of your rebuttal.
I have a few additional comments regarding the dataset construction: I suggest presenting it as a collection of prompts for with true/false claims, which aligns with your primary goal, rather than listing it as one of the paper's contributions.
Its creation is described in an appendix towards the end of the manuscript, and both the creation process and the knowledge base used seem relatively basic, not representing in my opinion a core contribution of the paper.
It sounds like some of the more straightforward writing concerns (R1 and R2) will be addressed.
I also appreciate the inclusion of these new results; these make Fig.
That said, R3 still holds.
Overall, I believe that this paper makes an interesting contribution and will generate interesting discussion at the conference if accepted.
Given this and the responses to other reviewers, I am raising my score to an 8.
Dear author, Thanks for the detailed rebuttal.
1) Regarding the generalizability of the framework, like I mentioned before, the approach is flexible in the sense that it provides a rough guideline/steps in generating data for novel tasks.
However, to actually apply them, a user has to experiment with prompt engineering at each step that works best for their particular task.
In that sense, the generalizability is still limited.
2) Thanks for providing the table of comparison with existing approaches, however I was referring to a comparison of scores obtained with those methods.
I do notice that it is presented in response to Reviewer QmfM.
Adding these comparisons will certainly make your claims better.
3) Regarding the last point, on effect of instruction.
I would like to explain myself better, as this is also related to point 1) here.
Say for MultiRC, the following instruction is being used in the paper ``` Given a paragraph, frame a question that requires information from multiple sentences of the paragraph to be answered correctly.
Then, generate a set of options.
The correct answer may be a combination of one, some, or all options.
Also include options that do not answer the above question.
Finally, output the combination of options that form the correct answer.
``` But I decide to provide a similar instruction like the one below ``` Read the text thoroughly to understand its content and themes.
Create a question that requires integrating information from multiple sentences of the text.
For each question, provide four to five option sentences that might seem relevant.
it is not necessary that a combination of sentences answer the question.
The options should test the reader’s ability to synthesize and evaluate information from the text, not just recall facts.
``` Now two points that I had previously raised 1) Would it be fair to say that for each task and step, one has to do fair amount of prompt engineering to be able to elicit outputs for a step in Targen?
2) Given two such varied but similar instructions, how much does it affect my downstream performance?
Thank you for the new results on TriviaQA!
How did you construct the preference data for the reward model?
Moreover, this only compares RLKF to using a system prompt.
Do you compare RLKF to regular RLHF?
It remains unclear to me why examples of "rejection > incorrect" preferences would not naturally be present in existing methods for preference data collection.
However if these preferences are sampled from the LM, I buy the authors' argument that models do not naturally know how to decline unless explicitly taught.
Thank you for clarifying!
The statement that "*existing LLMs such as Llama-2 initialize their reward models for RLHF from these generic preference pairs*" is untrue, to the best of my understanding.
I believe the reward model is initialized using responses sampled from (variants of) Llama2 (and continuously updated using the latest iteration of the finetuned model).
It is not initialized from a static dataset of preference data.
For reference, I share a snippet from the Llama 2 tech report below: > We ask annotators to first write a prompt, then choose between **two sampled model responses**, based on provided criteria.
In order to maximize the diversity, the two responses to a given prompt are sampled from **two different model variants**, and varying the temperature hyper-parameter.
[...] > Human annotations were **collected in batches on a weekly basis**.
As we collected more preference data, our reward models improved, and we were able to train progressively better versions for Llama 2-Chat (see the results in Section 5, Figure 20).
Llama 2-Chat improvement also shifted the model’s data distribution.
Since reward model accuracy can quickly degrade if not exposed to this new sample distribution, i.e., from hyper-specialization (Scialom et al., 2020b), **it is important before a new Llama 2-Chat tuning iteration to gather new preference data using the latest Llama 2-Chat iterations**.
This step helps keep the reward model on-distribution and maintain an accurate reward for the latest model.
I like this work and think it is an incorrect topic.
The authors have promised some revisions which I think are minor and easy to do.
I think the paper will make for good conversation at the conference and agree it is an understudied area.
Re: other reviewer concerns: I agree that this paper doesn't propose any new methods and the evaluation process is simple.
However, I don't think that is a major blocker - simple analyses done well are important also.
I agree with reviewer a4f9 that more models would be nice - perhaps the authors could use Together.ai (if they can't run them locally) to use some of the larger models like Llama3-70B (but of course you couldn't have put that in the paper since it wasn't out yet).
I think the authors could and probably should do this so that there are reproducible results but again this wouldn't take very long to add.
Thank you for the response.
Ans to Q7 -- future work where the student model could self-discover and summarize principles using the true labels from the practice questions -- at that point, it becomes very close to LEAP [1] method.
You can include this in the future work may be.
Ans to Q6 -- strong baseline -- yes, I would be curious to find out in your next version.
Ans to other questions -- thank you.
Your responses have given me more clarity now.
I will very likely increase my score today.
Obviously it would be under the assumption that the authors would include the suggested studies, analysis, baselines, and also try out the method updates (this part, if it is possible to do so).
That should make the paper stronger (supporting the claims, and making the method more robust).
*One final question*: how much human intervention (for quality checks on principles) was needed across different tasks.
I am looking for a ballpark quantitative answer.
Also, what instruction did you give the human on what a good principle is.
Thank you for acknowledging my comments.
I'd like to point out that the requirement of an existing large dataset is a large cost factor, which may be overlooked when applying to academic benchmarks--since they implicitly provide a large dataset with them.
In novel tasks, practitioners will have to build these datasets prior to applying the proposed method.
Therefore the dataset should be considered as a cost associated to this method.
I see that the explanation for Figure 3 (a) and (b) in the paper ( `numbers of examples in the problem-solving instruction`) is clear but (c) could be clarified better.
I also think that establishing the names of each method/step more clearly (mentioned in Reasons to Reject 6.1.) can prevent this misunderstanding.
I will maintain my initial rating.
I acknowledge reading the authors' response and thank them for addressing my questions.
l believe my original scorer still correctly reflects my overall evaluation of the paper, and therefore, I'm keeping my score the same.
I still believe that the "answer extraction methods" need to be described more clearly and recommend that as a major area of focus and perhaps rewriting for the camera-ready version to the authors.
No change to the score of 7 recommending acceptance.
The new table with the AMAP results ought to be included in the paper.
At a core level what is happening internally is that the diversity of responses from a single prompt is limited.
For the approach taken in this paper, the setup of pretending to be various types of people is one way to add variety into the prompts, yielding extra originality.
The setup of taking on different roles throws the generation into somewhat different distributions of training data, yielding different responses.
It may be that even more diversity of responses would emerge if there were increased diversity of the types of people being simulated or otherwise broadening of the diversity of the prompts.
Perhaps translating into different languages and asking the questions would be one way of getting answers from a very different part of the training distribution.
Thank you for the clarifications and detailed responses, I am satisfied with the answers, although I do think the title can be further polished by focusing more on the "alignment of concept across modalities", perhaps something like "Across Modality Concept Alignment between Language Model and Human Brain Region".
Nonetheless, I am still convinced that the paper quality has been adequately improved and I will increase the score to 6.
I thank the authors for addressing several questions.
However, except the finding of vision-language models result in Fig.
5, the remaining results primarily involve the use of recent language models and their brain alignment.
For example, if the authors aim to investigate concept alignment, the Pereira dataset used in Experiment 1 includes both abstract and concrete concepts.
How does concept alignment differ between these two types of concepts?
Do vision-language models better explain concept alignment across the three ROIs compared to text-only language models?
Additionally, in Figure 5, each ROI shows the same Pearson correlation across all text-only models.
Does this suggest that all text-based language models exhibit similar patterns of concept alignment?
Furthermore, an important language-related region-the angular gyrus, part of the parietal cortex-has not been explored in this study.
This is notable, as the angular gyrus is well known for its role in semantic information processing.
Overall, I am still not convinced that the current study provides meaningful implications or conclusions regarding the relationship between language models and brain alignment.
Although I’ve updated my score to 4, I believe the manuscript still requires significant improvements before it can be considered for publication.
Thanks to the author for their substantial replies.
They do provide additional context to better grasp their goal and some of the methods used.
After reading the reviews and corresponding replies, there is still some struggle understanding how the described methods address the stated goal, and what the real-life impact is.
With a goal of studying the hyper-parameter loss surface and develop *tools* for language modeling experiments, it would be highly relevant to have an idea of what type of LM experiment do benefit from these tools, and how.
What is the reader able to do after reading this paper, that they could not do before?
[E.g., is it useful for contrasting models?
This is not apparent from Figs.
3, 6 where different model types and tasks are shown.] I will absolutely acknowledge that I may not have the proper context or background to fully appreciate the significance of this work, and have updated the confidence score to reflect this.
I would also respectfully encourage the authors to clarify their methods, their use and the impact of this work in order to make its benefits more apparent to the reader.
I thank the authors for their response.
I still don't agree that this should be called a scaling law.
Chinchilla-style scaling laws are mostly about data and model size and how they trade off with compute.
As far as I can tell, there's nothing in your results that would tell you in advance the optimum quantity of FLOPs to spend on hyperparameter optimization for a model and training set of a given sizes.
What you're doing seems to me to be a lot more in the tradition of optimal stopping or PAC learning.
But that's kind of a minor point of terminology.
About the literature review, I take the authors' point.
But: if there is another version of this paper, I would encourage to authors to try to make it clearer in the paper what they're actually doing.
It took me four readings to figure it out and from looking at the discussion I don't think some of the other reviewers ever got it.
That's because this paper seems to be about one thing (which is a very active area of research and we've all read tons of papers about) but it's actually about something completely different (which no one else is doing and we've never seen before).
The fact that it confused all the reviewers so much is a sign that it could be making its point in a better way.
I thank the authors for their very clear and patient explanations.
I acknowledge that all the other reviewers have had much more positive ratings than my own (6, 7, 8 currently) and I am glad to increase mine, because the paper is really well executed and documented.
Thank for the follow-up analysis.
The results are very encouraging i.e.
the low scores with Oracle documents point to poor summarizer performance.
As such, there is large scope for improvement of the QMDS system in addition to improvement in retrieval.
Is it fair to say that the remaining room for improvement in the Oracle setting is due to (1) known issues with handling very long context (entire book, multiple meetings) and (2) stylistic issues of what the LLM prioritizes to retain in the summary vs a human annotator?
Because oracle documents are defined very loosely, a retriever with 100% recall will necessarily retrieve a long context.
>We mistakenly used a modified COLM style from another project.
The camera-ready version will strictly follow the official template.
Could you summarize the changes when using the official template (or better, if the system allows, upload a reformatted copy)?
I appreciate that a camera-ready version can be reformatted, however my concern here is that with presented formatting (which appears to have smaller font and margins), a non-trivial amount of content will not fit within the allotted space for the main paper.
and therefor the submitted and final papers will have significant changes.
Your rebuttal has cleared up a lot for me, and I'll revise my score accordingly.
**Related Work and Contributions** Thanks, I think making the revisions you are stating above will really help contextualize the work for COLM audience.
As for some of the other points, those are my misunderstandings when reading your paper.
If there is a way you can clarify language a bit for future readers who may have similar misunderstandings, that'd be much appreciated.
**Problem Definition** Honestly, this is what made it click for me in your rebuttal: >For example, a system that prioritizes minimizing error may abstain from uncertain responses, even if the user would prefer broader coverage.
The prose in this section (L115-L122) is quite high level.
Even your explanation in rebuttal feels like restating the same thing, up until this example.
I feel like adding even a sentence of example for each of these areas--Epistemic responsibility, Epistemic Personalization, Testimonial Reliability--could *really* help!
That is, don't just approach framework top-down with high level definitions, but also bottom up with some examples.
I still believe if you introduce math notation, that it should be used more than the place it's introduced.
So like in your example here, I'd like to see a sentence of example in the paragraph on "Well Calibrated Abstention" that uses $r_u$ explicitly.
And so on for the other passages as well.
**Epistemic Alignment Framework** Thanks for these changes!
**User Knowledge Preferences in Practice** This would be great, thanks!
**Evaluating Platform Epistemic Policies** Thanks, even just including a sentence or two about reviewing other models & finding them lacking comparable discussions would be good.
On the whole, it does bring up the question of -- why don't open source models provide this?
Does it even make sense to expect this of open source models given the way they aren't deployed with lay users in mind but released artifacts to be adapted for use by other developers?
Or is it merely oversight from these developers and they really should be doing it?
Not a requirement, but would be interesting to see some thought on this, given so much attention on AI ecosystem now is on open source vs closed source, and ensuring your framework is relevant to open source somehow can broaden the audience for your work.
**Other Writing** That would be helpful, thanks!
Thank you for your reponses!
> While we would like to address this comment, maintaining anonymity inhibits us to do so.
We sincerely hope that you trust that we in good faith consider this concurrent work.
I don't quite get the point about anonymity (no need to clarify if there are issues with it).
And yes, I assume that this is concurrent work in the sense that it was developed concurrently with that other work (as opposed to reactive work started right after that publication and submitted by the March 28 deadline).
All the clarifications are helpful.
I will keep my (high) score.
Thanks for the detailed responses and new experiments!
I’d keep my stance that this paper is ok to be accepted for its contributions of datasets and many experimental data points.
The observations are interesting and help model selection, but they could be more useful if the authors conducted variable-controlled experiments/training on selected models (Whisper, SeamlessM4T, Qwen, etc.) to derive and deduce more straight and convincing conclusions.
I.e., testing the hypotheses on strong baselines.
Thanks for the clarification!
In my initial review there was some misunderstanding regarding the problems setting.
Hence I think the baseline selection in the paper is acceptable.
Also I appreciate (1) clarification on the metric, (2) clarification and improved ablation study on task/lineage regularization (3) additional experiments on multiple train-test splits.
Happy to adjust my ratings.
I hope our discussion get incorporated to your revised paper.
# Do Consumers of Benchmark Scores Feel Like The Benchmark Is Capturing The Essence of the Task at Hand?
To quickly recap, I originally wrote that there's a critical missing component: do consumers of models' benchmarks scores feel like the scores are capturing the important elements of the task at hand?
For instance, if we used YourBench to develop an arithmetic exam for 4th graders, would educators find the students' scores to be measuring whatever educators care about?
Or if we used YourBench to create interview questions for software engineers, would hiring managers find the applicants' scores to be measuring the right skills for the job?
It's not clear to me that YourBench can automate this since the key consideration is working with stakeholders to develop such desiderata.
I found the authors' response to be not compelling: > (1) Our generation prompts explicitly instruct models to focus only "meaningful content" (pp.33,37) Telling the model to choose "meaningful content" means that it (the model) chooses what it thinks is meaningful, not the consumers of the benchmark scores.
> (2) System prompts are curated for "educational importance" (Appendix H) This is an implicit notion of what matters - educational importance - and again defaults to the model's subjective evaluation of what matters, rather than the consumes of the benchmark scores.
> (3) Human evaluation confirmed ~85% validity across 2k+ questions (Appendix E.1), with the frontier models scoring at 96% The paper defines validity as "Question Validity (the intrinsic correctness and answerability of a question)".
That's not really relevant to this point.
> We will therefore add it explicitly to the formalisation as the 4th D2EG criterion and thank the reviewer for their suggestion.
My point wasn't "Please add a fourth principle," but "How do consumers' preferences get integrated into the generated benchmark as a first-class consideration?" This is not clear to me, and the manuscript doesn't show that doing so is accomplishable.
Dear authors, Thank you for your response and additional experiments.
I think doing preference modeling by jointly training with attribute information is fine as long as we validate the proposed choice of architecture by comparing it with other multi-task architecture.
For interpretability, I know that LAVA is not going to achieve mechanical interpretability but please state what kind of interpretability we can get with LAVA in the problem statement.
While I am still skeptical about the motivation, I can raise my score to reflect the improvements on the clarification and new results.
I appreciate that the authors have started to validate Table 2 / Figure 4 with human evaluation.
Would be better if the authors extend their human evaluation to justify that correlation results like ``in the domain r/AskHistorians, Verbosity and Stimulation are more correlated with preference than Security and Power.`` I am not sure if we can validate ``which attributes most strongly influence user preferences``.
For example, does verbosity influence user preference in r/AskHistorians even if the longer answer does not contain any new information?
Thank you for your detailed response!
- I just want to clarify that my concern was not that LAVA would not generalize to other attributes, it was but that the particular attributes you select need to be specified beforehand and not discovered automatically in a data driven manner.
- I appreciate the pilot study on the human validation of the predictive nature of attributes.
I think it's reasonable that correlation of any particular attribute to preference is low.
Perhaps a better way to set this up might be to instead collect a set of annotations on pairwise comparison of attributes i.e.
you might get higher agreement that verbosity is more important than a cultural value.
In any case, my concerns are relatively minor as is reflected in my positive review score.
Thank you so much for the detailed responses.
Looking at Table 1 in the attached PDF and Table 2 in the submitted draft, I believe it's still the case that when I want to apply it to either new model type, model family, or Instruct/non-Instruct models, then all parameters should be carefully tuned.
But this is pretty common across preference (and general) training setup so no need to oversell REFA as "consistent" across settings (and I believe that's even misleading for the future readers).
Marked as "[minor]" just to clarify that it's relatively less important.
My core concerns for this paper is presentation and clarity in motivation and how does the new results fit with the original story of the paper, and to correctly evaluate on it, I will need a new revision/submission on it so I will keep my score as-is.
Overall I like the idea conceptually.
As mentioned in the summary it makes a lot of sense for time-series data as it has an implicit bias of summarizing the past at different resolutions.
This architecture as claimed, can handle long sequences with computational complexity O(L) where $L$ is the number of elements in the sequence.
It can also maintain short attention path distance between any node.
This distance is O(1) w.r.t L.
The experiments are good enough to demonstrate the advantage of this network over other attention mechanisms.
The implementation has been done efficiently using TVM and when released the code base would be of value.
I hope the paper is reproducible even though no code has been provided.
The empirical speed and memory consumption graphs are useful.
__Cons__ I have certain clarifying questions.
i would be happy to raise my scores if these are answered.
Further I have some comments that would hopefully make the paper better.
It would be better to formally define Signal Traversing Path and forward reference it from the introduction.
While reading the initial description in the introduction, it is not fully clear what the nodes at each resolution represent.
This is only evident to me after reading section 3.2 which states that convolutional layers with specific strides are applied repeatedly to get the coarser levels.
It would be better if one states upfront that some external mechanism is used to extract the initial states of the coarser nodes.
Related comment: I think the clarity of section 3,2 can be improved.
I might be wrong but I believe N is not defined in section 3.1 before it is used.
Please check this (ignore if I missed this somehow).What is the relation between N and S ?
I would suggest defining A, L, C, N, S clearly in one place with some indentation in Section 3.1, for ease of reading.
Please be slightly more clear in the second paragraph of section 3.
I would like to verify my understanding of the multi-step forecasting modules.
In the first module, we just have a fixed output layer which is a dense mapping to F outputs, where F is the future prediction length.
In the second mapping, there is a decoder that sequentially generated the multi-step output and the decoder is equivalent to the decoder in the original transformer paper.
Is my understanding correct?
In the experiments the information of the datasets and the experimental setup is not 100% clear to me even after reading the appendix.
Please clarify or point me to the relevant places in the paper.
In multi-step forecasting what is the length of the future prediction window.
Also, is the task rolling prediction over the test set?
These should be clearly defined.
is there a validation set?
Typically I would prefer if A and C are tuned on a validation set per dataset and the best results are reported.
the ordering would stay the same I guess, because fixed set of A, C are used in all experiments.
Is there a relation between A, C vs the granularity of the dataset.
For example if the data is hourly, then one could build a resolution graph such that groups of 24 are constructed in the first level (24 hours in a day), then groups of 7 (7 days in a week), then 4 weeks in a month.
Such a non-uniform pyramidal structure might be very useful.
Can the authors comment on this or better yet try this?
-- not absolutely essential but it would be interesting.
Generally, it would be better if we could rank pyramidal attention vs state of the art models on the well known benchmarks used in the DCRNN paper and newer papers like For instance one could just do the evaluation of pyramidal attention in the same tasks as the linked paper and report the numbers.
This would reveal the rank of pyramidal attention in the SOTA table and would be a useful signal for the community.
Again this is not required but a nice to have.
I like the overall idea and the execution is decent (please see the pros and cons above).
In my mind the pros outweigh the cons and I am currently rating it as above the acceptance threshold.
I can strengthen my reviews if the authors answer the questions asked in the cons section.
4: All of the claims and statements are well-supported and correct.
3: The contributions are significant and somewhat new.
Aspects of the contributions exist in prior work.
The architecture is well-motivated, tackles the important problem of LSTF, and improves both forecasting performance and computational efficiency of state-of-the-art baselines.
Paper is well written and easy to follow – making motivations and contributions clear.
Weaknesses --- However, some key architectural details can be clarified further for full reproducibility and analysis.
How are historical observations combined with inputs known over all time given differences in sequence lengths (L vs L+M)?
The text mentions separate embedding and addition with positional encoding, but clarifications on how the embeddings are combined and fed into the CSCM are needed.
Can each node attend to its own lower-level representation?
From equation 2, it seems to be that only neighbouring nodes are attended to, based on the description of N_l^(s).
Do the authors have any guidelines on how to select S/A/C (and consequently N) for a given receptive field L?
In addition, while the ablation analysis tests the impact of changing CSCM architectures, it would be good to evaluate the base performance without the PAM to determine the value added by attention.
This would also provide a simple comparison vs dilated CNNs which have been used successfully in time series forecasting applications (e.g.
Finally, could I double check which dataset was used for the ablation analysis as well?
I seem to be having some difficulty lining the numbers in Tables 4-6 up with Table 3.
The paper makes a strong contribution to long sequence temporal forecasting, although there are some aspects that need to be verified before it is ready for publication.
4: The contributions are significant, and do not exist in prior works.
The paper is well-written and well-motivated with sufficient technical details 2.
The extensive empirical results demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed method 3.
A proof is provided to guarantee the linear complexity of long sequence encoding ## Comments 1.
More datasets for multi-step forecasting would be helpful in evaluating the method.
The reason of using the second prediction module in multi-step forecasting need more justification, e.g.
why take the concatenation as key/value in the second layer.
Overall I find this paper quite interesting with great potential contribution to the community, and recommend an accept.
The paper is well written and the proposed architecture is easy to understand.
I believe the equations are correct, and the included model illustrations makes the model design very intuitive.
Extensive evaluation is provided, and the proposed model consistently outperforms baseline models.
A ablation study is provided to justify the effectiveness of each component in the proposed architecture.
Although I couldn't find any specific publication, I believe hierarchical structure illustrated in Figure 1 (d) has been explored before in the context of LSTM/RNN.
In addition, another line of work trying to apply the residual connections from ResNet to RNNs (e.g., also provides a means for long-range time-series modelling.
The paper states that Pyraformer simultaneously capture temporal dependencies of different ranges in a compact multi resolution fashion.
This is intuitively understandable.
However, it would be more convincing if the evaluation could also illustrate this perspective.
To be more specific, how do we know from the current evaluation setting that the model indeed learns multi resolution temporal dependencies?
Connected to comment 2, it would be better if the authors could illustrate a bit more on why these datasets can be used to evaluate long-term dependency modelling.
In my understanding, long-term dependency modelling could be a bit different from long-term prediction.
The former focuses on extract meaningful information from long-term previous steps, and the latter focuses on accurate prediction into the far future.
If the real-world dataset does not include the long-term dependency in it, some study on a synthetic dataset would help readers understand the benefit of the proposed model.
In other words, inaccuracy in long-term prediction could be resulted from (1) accumulated noise in predictions along time, and (2) lack of long-term temporal dependency modelling.
How does the authors distinguish the result from these two perspectives?
The proposed method uses a factor of 2 to construct the hierarchy.
This number seems a bit arbitrary.
I'm wondering if this is a design choice with some thoughts behind it, or could this number be treated as a hyper parameter?
Basically this number will decide the number of hierarchies in the structure.
Overall it is a solid paper.
Please refer to the above session for the detailed discussion.
I had a few concerns regarding evaluation setup and novelty.
If the authors could reply accordingly, I'm willing to reevaluate the paper.
3: Some of the paper’s claims have minor issues.
A few statements are not well-supported, or require small changes to be made correct.
2: The contributions are only marginally significant or novel.
The idea of representing gesture sequences as vector-quantized features is technically sound and clearly presented.
The experimental results show reasonable benefits over prior work, especially in objective evaluation metrics.
Related work appears incomplete.
There is at least one other work on generating gestures from input text transcripts: Bhattacharya, U., Rewkowski, N., Banerjee, A., Guhan, P., Bera, A., & Manocha, D.
Text2Gestures: A Transformer-Based Network for Generating Emotive Body Gestures for Virtual Agents.
In 2021 IEEE Virtual Reality and 3D User Interfaces (VR) (pp.
Some technical aspects of the proposed method are unclear to me: 1.
For the DAE (Section 4.1), how do the authors ensure that the decoder outputs are valid rotation matrices?
What reconstruction loss is used for the DVAE that works with gesture sequences?
Is it a mean squared error (MSE) similar to that used by the frame-level DAE?
Since MSE forces the mean values of the poses in the input and the output gestures to be close, it may cause the outputs to be temporally smoothed out.
If that is the case, then how does the proposed method provide the largest average jerk (Table 1, last row)?
If not, do the authors perform any additional steps to safeguard against the smoothing?
2020, as referred to by the authors, have already proposed an objective measure for gesture diversity, dubbed Fréchet Gesture Distance (FGD).
Since the authors propose their own metric, the Hellinger distance, for the same purpose, it would have been appropriate to have at least some discussion on how the two metrics compare.
More importantly, what is the motivation to propose a new metric over the existing one?
Before the user study, were the users shown any good and bad examples (or something similar), as determined by the authors, for the questions they were subsequently asked?
Did the authors perform any inter-rater agreement, e.g., using Fleiss' Kappa measure, to verify the reliability of the responses?
In Section 7.1, the authors mention that they were limited to one person in their work.
However, multi-person datasets are already available, such as the TED Gesture Dataset proposed by Yoon et al.
2019, and used by both Yoon et al.
Are there any specific reasons why the authors did not work with this dataset?
Moreover, in Section 4 (page 5, last line), the authors mention that they only focus on upper body gestures.
Again, were they any specific reasons to eliminate the lower-body gestures from the training and the testing processes?
The proposed method is technically sound and attempts to solve the challenging problem of co-speech gesture generation using an insightful approach, that of vector-quantizing the latent representation space of gestures and mapping from natural language sentences to it.
However, a number of technical details were unclear to me, which makes the overall method and evaluations hard to follow.
I invite the authors to respond to my comments under "weaknesses" before I can strongly recommend the paper for acceptance.
Strengths: - I appreciate that the related work section which discusses each prior art very well with their cons and pros.
- The proposed method brings some improvements over the baseline methods for metric jerk, velocity and accelerarion when tested on Trinity dataset.
Weaknesses: - The technical novelty of the proposed method is questionable.
It is important to highlight that this is not the first time variational autoencoders are adapted for this task.
I found the proposed method incremental, such as adding the denoising property to the existing Vector Quantized Denoising Variational Autoencoder architecture.
- The paper should include ablation study showing the effectiveness of the components compared to the other possibilities.
For example, the authors claim that “….we consolidated a denoising characteristic to the variational autoencoder framework (DVAE), presenting a more flexible and robust posterior distribution approximation than the standard VAE”.
However the correctness of this argument was not empirically justified.
- I found the experimental analysis limited.
The proposed method should be validated also on other datasets and following that, it should be compared with other state of the arts too (e.g., "MoGlow: Probabilistic and Controllable Motion Synthesis Using Normalising Flows, ACM Trans.
Graph., code available").
I am aware that prior art, for example, Yoon et al.
2019 was used TED gesture dataset, which is a larger scale dataset compared to Trinity.
Another dataset is Gesture-speech dataset collected by Takeuchi et al.
Gesture-speech dataset include audio in which one can obtain the transcriptions.
Authors should include these datasets into their analysis, to show that the findings generalize across various conditions.
- It is also an important limitation that the proposed method was tested on a dataset having only monologues.
The interaction scenarios is perhaps much more challenging and also more realistic, assuming that such a system can be deployed to social robots which interact with other social agents.
- “Although our system showed a significant improvement over baseline….” this argument should be justified by a significance test.
- The applied human study should be better described in the main paper, it is not clear to me what is the reliability score of the human annotations.
- Figure captions require a better explanation.
E.g., in Fig 1, x, x\tilde, x\head should be described as well as Loss should be precisely mentioned as MSE Loss.
The similar comment applies for Fig.2.
- My understating is that the proposed method is not end-to-end.
If so, this fact should be included to the discussions as some of the baseline methods are end-to-end.
- limited technical novelty - limited experimental analysis
1: The contributions are neither significant nor novel.
It is stated in the paper that the authors were required participants to be located in Canada due to ethical review board policies.
Strength: This work propose to achieve multi-object position prediction with only using visual information like images without ground truth positions as supervision.
Weakness: 1 In general, this work is a patchwork of a condition-based generative model and a raw image preprocessing method at the input and output ends, leading to insufficient novelty.
1) For key point detection, Jakab et al.
(2018) thoughts are followed.
2) The initial graph Gt with its nodes and edges is built through widely used operations, e.g., visual+position; distance 3) Why the approximate posterior is conditioned on the graph at next step?
There is no interpretation, but this design is seem as some condition-VAE-based multi-agent prediction methods [1,2], while the only difference is that existing works infer the agents' dynamics but KINet infers the graph representation.
4) The message passing is not novel.
5) The forward prediction with a skip connection is not novel.
2 Why do you use the contrastive loss?
The interpretation is not clear; why it helps to learn actionable object-centric representation?
How to build the negative G-?
3 As for the experiments, I do not think the dataset matches the authors' claim: hard to annotation/detection and complex scenes.
1) The objects and scenes are quite simple.
I suggest to test the methods on some real-world dataset like SDD and ETH-UCY, which have top-view image and scene information like obstacles.
2) In the proposed dataset, I notice that there are very large `+' object, but the method only determines a few key points for each object.
So how to simulate the positional constraints imposed by the shape of an object？ [1] It Is Not the Journey But the Destination: Endpoint Conditioned Trajectory Prediction (ECCV2020) [2] Contextually Plausible and Diverse 3D Human Motion Prediction (ICCV 2021)
This work propose to achieve multi-object position prediction with only using visual information like images without ground truth positions as supervision.
But the detailed designs are not sufficiently novel.
Overall, I think what the paper does is quite similar to V-CDN, and making it end-to-end does not seem to be a significant contribution.
Regarding the inference of adjacency matrix, in Variational Graph Auto-Encoders, the groundtruth adjacency matrix is provided, so the decoder can be trained to reconstruct the groundtruth adjacency matrix.
However, in the proposed model, the groundtruth adjacency matrix is unknown, so I am wondering how the decoder can be learned and what A is used for computing log p(A|Z) in the inference loss.
The idea of combining unsupervised keypoint detection and forward modeling seems to be new and has not been done before.
The idea is simple and shows its effectiveness to some previous baselines.
Concerns** The reviewer does have some concerns about the model.
The claim on the previous method is not accurate enough that "Relying on object detection and segmentation tools, on the other hand, makes the forward model fragile and dependent on the flawless performance of these tools.
More often than not, pretrained object detection or segmentation models suffer from poor generalization to unseen objects".
Models based-on detection or segmentation proposals have not been compared in the experimental sections.
Also, recent methods like MoNet[A] have been showing object proposals can be obtained from unsupervised learning.
It will be interesting and necessary to compare the models based on keypoint detection and object proposals like combining the MoNet and PropNet for forward modeling.
The evaluation is limited on a newly-built dataset and it will be more convincing to compare the proposed methods on the previous dataset like CLEVRER, which offers more baselines for future prediction.
The details of the newly-built dataset is missing like the statistics of the dataset and what kind of objects it contains.
It will be hard for readers to catch up how challenging the dataset is and how effective the model is.
From the examples in Figure 3, the dataset seems to be simple.
It contains simple objects from the top-down view.
whether the dataset contains occlusion cases?
Much details about the dataset is needed.
Burgess C P, Matthey L, Watters N, et al.
Monet: Unsupervised scene decomposition and representation[J].
arXiv preprint arXiv:1901.11390, 2019.
Since a bunch of significant baselines are absent and the details of the dataset are missing, the reviewer thinks the paper in the current version is not suitable for publishing on ICLR.
The reviewer does think that a revised version will make the paper much more appealing.
This paper seeks to empirically investigate the importance of representation learning, which may provide a new understanding of deep long-tailed learning to the community.
This work shows the effectiveness of intra-class compactness and inter-class separation on long-tailed representation learning.
This work also analyzes the influence of data augmentation on long-tailed representation learning, which provides a better understanding of data augmentation in deep long-tailed learning.
This paper mentioned that "a commonly held belief in deep long-tailed classification is that performance bottleneck is the classification head atop the representation learner".
However, such a belief may not be common.
Moreover, in the conclusion, this paper stated that "the results suggest that the primary problem in long-tailed classification may in fact be the few-shot learning problem on the tail classes, rather than the imbalance problem".
However, this argument is too strong and the obtained results cannot support it.
It would be better if the authors had written all the arguments more rigorously and verified them more completely.
As mentioned by the above question, there are many representation learning-based long-tailed studies, e.g., [1-5].
Therefore, it would be better if authors can review mire representation learning based long-tailed learning methods in related work.
The vital problem in this paper is the used balanced set: i.e., CIFAR-10/100 and ImageNet-1K.
Please note that the data number of CIFAR-10/100 or ImageNet-1K is much more than their long-tailed variants, i.e., CIFAR-LT and ImageNet-LT.
Considering using more training samples will lead to significant improvement in representation learning and model performance, most empirical comparisons in this paper (especially Table 1 and Figure 2) are unfair and the corresponding arguments are unpersuasive.
The experiments would have been more persuasive, if the balanced training set is a variant of the long-tailed training set with a similar total data number but each class has the same/similar data number, like [1,2].
For example, a balanced set of ImageNet-LT can be obtained at 4.
Please discuss more of Figure 5.
On ImageNet-LT and CIFAR100-LT, the variance trends of long-tailed representations and ideal representations are quite consistent.
Such observations seem different from the conclusion of Sec 2.1.
Since I am confused about the results, I guess other readers may also do so.
Therefore, I suggest the authors explain them more.
Figure 3 is not clear enough.
It would be better if the authors can explain it more in the captions.
Moreover, what are "degrees" in Fig.6-8?
Please make them more clear.
In Lines 4-5 of page 2, ImageNet-LT appears twice.
In Line 1 of page 6, there should be a "full stop" before In practice.
References: [1] Deep long-tailed learning: A survey.
[2] Exploring balanced feature spaces for representation learning.
[3] Contrastive learning based hybrid networks for long-tailed image classification.
[4] Parametric contrastive learning.
[5] Distributional robustness loss for long-tail learning.
Overall, I like the goal of this paper, i.e., analyzing the bottleneck of long-tailed learning.
However, I cannot champion this paper since the data number of the used balanced set is much larger than the long-tailed set, which makes the empirical comparisons unfair and the corresponding finding unpersuasive.
Moreover, the arguments in this paper should be written more rigorously.
I am glad to see the response of the authors.
2: Several of the paper’s claims are incorrect or not well-supported.
I really enjoyed reading the paper.
It has a very clear direction from the beginning with good experiments to back it up.
The writing is clear as well.
I believe long-tailed classification is an interesting problem with clear real-world applications, so studying it in-depth is necessary for the community.
Overall, I don't see any major drawbacks or shortcomings as the experiments and ablations combined with the analysis are solid.
That said I have few questions: The difference in representation between D* and D_{LT} is clearly visible.
However, apart from difference in the shape of distribution (long-tail vs balanced) there is also difference in the amount of data between those two which might play an important role, especially when considering learned representations.
It would be good to see what is the difference as well between two datasets that have equal number of examples, but different distributions: normal ad LT.
Since otherwise the authors conclusion might raise a question.
Additionally, Yin et al.
[1] performed a related analysis of classifier magnitude difference which was depending on the distribution of classes.
The authors analysis seems deeper here, however it would be good to address any similarities/differences.
On top of that, few methods [2, 3] used adversarial examples in order to modify the learned representations instead of the classifiers in LT task.
It would be good to see what the authors think about such direction and what impact on the feature space and measured statistics it would have.
And finally, apart from the analysis, what are the conclusions here for the future researchers - any thoughts on proposed directions/approaches that could originate from the performed analysis?
"Feature transfer learning for face recognition with under-represented data." Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
[2] Kim, Jaehyung, Jongheon Jeong, and Jinwoo Shin.
"M2m: Imbalanced classification via major-to-minor translation." Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
[3] Kozerawski, Jedrzej, et al.
"BLT: Balancing Long-Tailed Datasets with Adversarially-Perturbed Images." Proceedings of the Asian Conference on Computer Vision.
Good analytical paper on interesting subject of long-tailed classification.
It would be good to see authors thoughts on impact of the amount of data in training, impact of adversarial augmentations, and proposed directions stemming from the analysis.
The weakness: 1) The second objective of this paper is to discuss "why data augmentation helps in representation learning".
However, in the paper, only positive effects from data augmentation were shown, the reasons and mechanisms were not fully discussed.
2) The overall paper is based on the unserious term "good enough".
What is this term defined?
Good enough in terms of what?
Generalization and robustness compared to full balanced data sets or in terms of knowledge transfer?
If it is the first one, of course, long-tailed representations are less generalized and robust compared to balanced representations.
It is not a new idea and is already discussed in [1].
If it is the second one, then the later experiments don't make any sense.
And I think when people say long-tail representations are "good enough" in studies like [2], it is more like it is good enough for long-tail learning rather than comparing it to balanced learning.
3) All the experiments seem unfair to me.
For example, D_LT are representations from long-tailed data sets, and D* are representations from balanced data sets.
Balanced data sets always have much more training samples compared to corresponding long-tailed counterparts.
How do you know these inferior results were not caused by the lack of training samples?
4) In the "adding unseen samples" experiments (e.g., Fig 6, Fig 7, Fig 8), only results on D_LT were reported.
I want to see results when unseen samples are added to D* as well.
Only by doing this can you prove D* is less diffused and better localized.
5) Fig 7 needs a more detailed legend.
So many components don't have explanations.
6) By looking at Figure 5, I don't see a significant difference between D_LT and D* in Cifar100-LT and ImageNet-LT.
Large-scale long-tailed recognition in an open world.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (pp.
[2] Kang, B., Xie, S., Rohrbach, M., Yan, Z., Gordo, A., Feng, J., & Kalantidis, Y.
Decoupling representation and classifier for long-tailed recognition.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.09217.
I think the intuition of this paper is not clear and the experiments are not persuasive.
The topic is interesting and the papers pose some unique observations after extensive empirical analysis and experiments 2.
The paper defines several simple mathematical and statistical metrics to measure the differences between representations.
The posed questions are not well addressed The paper shows some observations but did not provide a concrete and reasonable solution such that the long-tailed classification issue can be addressed.
The useful insight from this paper is limited.
The empirical observations are not solid and rigorous The paper only provides some simple metrics but did not explain why the metric is necessary and what's the high-level intuition.
I did not get the motivation why the authors come up with these metrics to show the differences between representation.
In addition, there is no rigorous mathematical proof or statistical analysis.
Lack of careful related work discussion The related work section is hard to follow and the authors did not explain their contributions and differences from existing works.
The writing needs to be improved.
Many typos result in additional difficulties to read.
The citation format is not consistent.
For example, Cui et al..
in section 3 does not have a year, and "He et al (2015)" followed by Resnet-32 should be "(He et al, 2015)".
The "google enough" and "Normal" in the abstract should be corrected.
An overall feeling is that the paper is an ongoing work and needs to be carefully written and improved.
My recommendation is to reject it in the current form.
I do not have any ethics concerns.
=== Strengths === + The paper is well written and motivated, and the presentation is easy to follow.
+ The presented approach shows convincing experimental results on the selected benchmark.
=== Weaknesses === - I would like to see a more thorough experimental analysis.
The latest Dreamer implementation also evaluates all tasks in the Atari benchmark.
I would like to see how DreamerPro compares to the basic Dreamer on the Atari benchmark as well.
- I would like to see some visualizations on the learned features using the prototype learning loss.
For example, a side-by-side comparison of t-SNE or nearest neighbor plots of the image observations with their representations learned from 1) the original reconstruction loss and 2) the proposed prototype learning loss.
I would also like to visualize what the learned prototypes correspond to in the observation space.
- The authors mention that they use continuous latent space for both Dreamer and DreamerPro as they found it to perform better.
However, according to Dreamerv2, discrete latent space is one of the major improvements they found and it outperformed continuous latent space.
I would appreciate it if the authors can further clarify this in the response.
- I am concerned about the novelty of this paper, because it does seem like a straightforward combination of Dreamer and SWAV, with one additional novelty which is the proposed L_temp loss.
This feels somewhat incremental to me.
### Post rebuttal updates The authors did a good job in rebuttal and with the additional experiments and visualizations, the paper is now in a much better shape in my honest opinion.
I am updating my score from 3 to 5 to reflect the changes.
While the paper proposes a valid combination of existing techniques (SwAV + Dreamer) with reasonable performance on the selected task of "RL with random visual distractions", to me this paper is not significant or novel enough to make a strong case for acceptance.
The paper is well-written and the presented approach shows promising results on the selected benchmark.
However, it seems that the paper lacks novelty at the moment, and I would like to see a more thorough experimental section with more visualizations.
Based on these, I do not recommend acceptance at this moment.
I thank the authors for the additional results on Atari and the clarification.
While the proposed method is reasonably motivated, it requires a strong experimental results to be justified.
DreamerPro is able to be comparable with Dreamer only on a subset of the Atari environments tested, and it remains unclear to me whether there is a fundamental limitation in the representation capacity of DreamerPro to handle complex environments.
I would like to keep my original score.
I believe your comment addressed one of the major issues (motivation).
I agree that resource can be an issue in this case.
it does not address the reminder of the issues (weak baselines and lack of analysis).
This paper has the potential to be much more impactful, if compared if stronger baselines and particularly if it provides more analysis and insights.
That's why, in its current form, I have to stick to my current recommendation.
### Strengths - The approach is clear and well motivated, and a natural extension of representation learning for MBRL - Related work section is thorough and well written - Experimental results show an increased robustness to visual distractions compared to dreamer ### Areas to improve The experiments are not as thorough as they could be.
- Several baselines are cited but not included in experiments (ie PSE, CURL, many of the model-free temporal prediction models).
I understand that the paper is not attempting to contribute a model-free vs model-based comparison, but it makes the results seem thin.
- Three random seeds seems too few - One of the main stated motivations of using a non-contrastive representation approach was to reduce the required batch size, but there is little evidence here with which to evaluate that claim.
- I like the ablation study comparing the different terms of the additional loss (Figure 4).
The paper would be stronger with some additional exploration of the design space of the presented idea.
For example, is the approach sensitive to the hyperparameters in Table 3?
Another example, for the temporal consistency loss, could you also include terms for enforcing the consistency across timesteps and augmentations simultaneously, eg w^(1)log u^(2)?
I found the diagram in Figure 1 a bit unclear because it ignores the augmentation index i, and has AUG(o_t) repeated twice.
What do the two augmentations in the diagram represent, if both sets of augmentations are actually passed through all paths of the diagram?
## Update after rebuttal Thank you for addressing my concerns.
I will maintain my score that this paper is above the acceptance threshold.
Overall, I found the paper to be a novel exploration of a natural combination of two methods from MBRL and SSL.
The paper makes modest claims, and supports them with good evidence and a well-written explanation.
Although the results show empirical improvements, the paper could do more to contribute to a more general understanding of these improvements and the approach itself.
I thank the authors for their rebuttal.
I would like to point out to the authors that resnets with constant weights (i.e.
weights tied across all layers) have been studied in the past, especially in the context of neural ODEs (see [1] as an example).
Therefore I maintain that many (not all) of the claims in the paper are either explicitly known in literature in one form or another or are not surprising given what is out there.
However, I think there is value in bridging the literature between what is known in the resnet/nODE domain and NCA.
I am increasing my score but I would like to see the authors explicitly explain the relationship between NCA and weight shared resnets and give references to prior work.
[1] Avelin, Benny, and Kaj Nyström.
"Neural ODEs as the deep limit of ResNets with constant weights." Analysis and Applications 19, no.
Pros: - Figure 2 is extremely clear, and I understand pretty much how the model works.
- I appreciate that the authors looked at a number of different datasets to compare their model against.
- I think the "damage" experiments in Figure 10 were very interesting and well done, and could have been more of a showcase of the paper.
Cons: - I think this work could be improved by showing more tasks this approach would work very well for.
For example, in Figure 10, what does neuron/latent variable ablation look like with a normal variational autoencoder with upsampling?
Can this be quantified with log-likelihood?
This would be a great metric to compare against.
- For the decoding process figures (Figure 1 and 4), I don't see how this approach necessarily differs from a regular variational autoencoder with some sort of upsampling.
- With respect to inpainting of images, there are many other approaches that directly use the log-likelihood that could be compared against.
- I don't think the claims of "super-resolution" are well founded, especially if those claims are only using MNIST as the input dataset and the reconstructions have artifacts.
This could be sufficiently tested by training the model either blurry or downsampled images and comparing the "super-resolved" images to the true high-resolution images.
Neutral: - The individual samples reported in the appendix are a bit surprising (their low quality).
I think this should have been reported more in the main part of the paper.
Generally, I think this model is an incremental improvement over neural cellular automata.
While I do think that this approach is interesting and the results are sound, I think there could be more careful analysis of where the VNCA shines compared to existing approaches.
I thank the authors for their reply.
The authors have improved the paper significantly after the reviews, and they have addressed all questions and comments that I raised.
Question 2 in my review was an oversight on my part.
I also thank the authors for clarifying my doubts regarding the architecture.
As long as everything is properly reported in the paper, I don't see any further issues.
I was already in favour of accepting the paper.
After the rebuttal, I have raised my score to a full "accept".
From my perspective, the main novelty is two folds.
One is the investigation of the gradient subspace, while the other is the proposed method which reuses similar past gradients to save communication.
The proof technique for the theorem is standard.
However, it seems to have some mistakes, which though can be fixed with additional efforts and some quantities redefined.
The paper provides abundant experiments which I appreciate a lot.
Experiments illustrate communication efficiency and the plug-and-play property of their method.
Most of the writing is clear but some parts are hard to understand.
I have the following concerns: 1.
The readability for Figure 1-3 should be improved.
Without the help of Algorithm 2, I can’t figure out the meaning of each coordinate axis.
In the first paragraph of Section 3, it is better to add $\theta^{(t, 0)}_k$ is initialized as $\theta_k$ explicitly.
The description of LBGM Algorithm is hard to understand at the first glance.
Some undefined terms are used, like look-back coefficients.
I have to look up their meanings and exact mathematical forms in Lemma 1 and Algorithm 1, which increases the reading burden.
I suggest the author could give a specific definition of frequently used terminology at the beginning.
Besides, to better deliver the main idea of Algorithm 1, certain properties could be provided.
For example, each device uploads just one LBG to the server, and the server tracks and maintains all updated LBGs.
Lemma 1 seems to have a mistake.
The equality of the projections of a vector into two different vectors, though being wrong, is frequently used in the proof of Theorem 1.
As a result, (14) and the first line of $Z_5$ are incorrect.
However, these mistakes can be avoided.
To bound $Z_5$, we can directly use the fact: $(1-\cos \theta)^2 \le |\sin \theta|$ for all $- \pi/2 \le \theta \le \pi/2$.
In the way, though Theorem 1 can be rescued to be correct, the current proof is definitely not ready for publication.
It is unclear the frequency of LBC being transmitted.
Note that communication is only saved when we communicate LBC rather than the whole vector.
In the paper, related results include Figure 5 and 6 which investigates the variation of the total number of parameters shared.
Besides, to compute the LBPs, we should first compute $\nabla F(\theta_k^{(t)})$ which incurs additional communication.
I don’t know whether Figure 5 and 6 have taken this factor into account or not.
I think there are more choices to set LBGs.
In the paper, the LBG are just one of the history gradient.
Why not define LBG as a moving average?
This means we update the new LBG as the average of all LBGs.
When the algorithm starts to converges, the average could be more stable.
The paper spends a lot of time studying the low-rank property of subsequent gradients.
Why not let each device maintain more than one LBGs?
In this way, each device has an LBG set, which is updated when the space it spans can’t explain the variance of the new coming LBG.
Maybe we need PCA to determine whether the LBG set meets the requirement.
With more LBGs, I guess the empirical performance would be improved further.
After all, current experiments show with LBGM the test accuracy might slightly decay.
I appreciate the empirical investigation of low-rank gradient space and the idea behind the proposed method.
However, the current version of this paper is not proper for publication due to the mentioned concerns.
Thank the authors for the detailed response.
While my first concern is addressed, I'm still not convinced that this algorithm can work well with client sampling.
The newly added experiments uses a very high client sampling ratio, ie 50%.
In practice, the client sampling ratio would be much smaller.
For example, in the StackOverflow dataset in [1], the client sampling ratio is only 0.01%.
If the authors cannot run experiments in such low client sampling ratio, then I think the authors at least are supposed to provide some discussions/experiments showing how the performance of the proposed algorithm changes along with the client sampling ratio.
My main concern is that when the client sampling ratio is lower than some threshold, the proposed algorithm might not provide significant communication reduction.
Thanks for the authors' response.
I would consider using a subspace that spans a series of updates to be a relatively straightforward extension of approximating a single update.
In addition, storing all clients' gradients at the server is a key limitation of this work.
For these reasons, I would keep my current score, but if another reviewer strongly feels that this paper should be accepted, I would not argue against it either.
It would be useful if the methodology used for hyperparameter search (at the end of the second response) could be included in the appendix.
An additional minor comment is: there are fluctuations in many of the plots, even for vanilla FL in Figures 5 and 6.
It would be good to investigate and explain why these fluctuations happen.
In many cases, this may be due to improper choice of learning rate or model architecture, which should be fixed if possible.
The paper focuses on a relevant problem in multi-modal learning on how to utilize information from both modalities efficiently.
The strength of the paper is that they follow a structured and scientific way of identifying the problem, proposing a metric to measure the extent of the problem and perform experiments to validate their hypothesis.
They also show through experiments that the proposed training procedure leads to more efficient modality utilization and shows improved accuracy.
The empirical results are strong.
Weakness: In a MTMM architecture, Theta_0 (red blocks in Fig 1) would also be receiving updates based on the modality m1 as information is being passed through the fusion blocks denoted by parameters (theta_0)'(green and red-green blocks).
In that case, I am not sure if definition 4.1 is a valid way to define the conditional learning speeds as both theta_0 and theta_0' would see the information flow from modality m1.
It would have been valid if theta_0 did not se information from m1 at all (like the way conditional utilization rate was defined in 2.1).
So, I am not clearly convinced with the statement in Section 4.1 that "If the greedy learner hypothesis is true, the conditional learning speed would serve as a proxy for the conditional utilization rate.
dspeed(f;t) would predict dutil(f) at the end of training." Authors have tried to explain how to derive uni-modal outputs from MTMM in section A1 but it isn't clear to me 3.
Re-balancing step is not clear as explained in Appendix A2.
Lets say we want to balance the information flow from modality m0 in a MTMM architecture in Fig 1.
In that case, does it mean the top branch takes information from just m0 (i.e.
the information flow from green and green-red blocks is stopped) to generate prediction y0_hat, while the bottom branch takes information from both m0 and m1 to generate the prediction y1_hat.
This paper is easy to read and addresses the shortcomings of vanilla multi-modal training scenarios.
Authors have done a good job of explaining the problem followed by laying out their hypotheses clearly.
They have done experiments which enforces the hypotheses empirically.
Authors should explain the re-balancing step (in section A2) and how to derive uni-modal predictions from multi-modal DNNs (in section A1) more clearly with consistent notations as used throughout the paper.
The topic of modal balance is interesting and has attracted much attention.
The proposed method is direct and easy to follow.
Experiments on several datasets verify the effectiveness.
How to set the \alpha at the bottom of page five?
More parameter analyses are expected.
As introduced in the introduction and abstract, many related works about this topic have been proposed, e.g., “Rubi: Reducing unimodal biases in visual question answering”, “Removing bias in multi-modal classifiers: Regularization by maximizing functional entropies”.
What are the improvements to the proposed methods?
Why not compare these methods?
The reviewer believes that the experiments are very lacking in comparison with the SOTA methods.
This paper focuses on the multi-modal interaction problem, that multi-modal models tend to rely on just one modality while under-utilizing the other modalities.
Since conditional utilization rate cannot be computed efficiently during training, they introduce an efficient proxy based on the pace at which a DNN learns from each modality, which we refer to as conditional learning speed.
So they propose a training algorithm, balanced multi-modal learning, and demonstrate that it indeed addresses the issue of greedy learning.
The proposed algorithm is found to improve the model’s generalization.
So I recommend weak accept.
Thanks for the authors' efforts.
After viewing the reviews and other rebuttals, I tend to keep my rating.
The topic of this paper is interesting and worthy of exploration, but the method and analysis in this paper is not well supported, except some empirical validation on several visual-only dataset, and the method is only compared with some simple baseline.
I think the author should further thoroughly analyze the proposed method not only in theories but also in experiments, especially on dataset with natural modality (such as some audio-visual dataset, like Kinetics-Sounds).
Thank you for the responses.
I've read all of the other reviews and their responses including mine.
While the revised manuscript has been improved with respect to experiments, writing and readability, the supports of main claims still seems not to be so strong and convincing.
For example, Table 1 is augmented with the results of RUBi.
However, some other numbers and bolded ones in Table 1 are changed in ModelNet40 and NVGesture-scratch without any changes on experimental settings in the manuscript.
Which one is correct between the first version and the revised one?
Also, I still think that it needs more concrete and connected chains verified among the claims.
Even though we observe some positive cases in real worlds, we should validate postulated arguments to be true.
Even though this manuscript provides some promising tendency with experimental results, I believe that they are not enough to be validation.
Strengths: - The paper studies a difficult problem in robotic manipulation, and shows results on tasks of varying difficulty.
Leveraging demonstrations as task-relevant goals is intuitive and straightforward.
- The experiments are thorough.
They study the importance of the goal selection strategy, sensitivity to different numbers of demonstrations, and how quickly different learned policies can solve the task.
Weaknesses: - In the hindsight goal selection, relabeling the rewards for goals not part of the rollout trajectory necessitates a different reward function separate from the environment reward.
The separate reward function seems to need to follow a sparse-reward structure to learn a Q-value function from both reward functions.
This requires choosing a thresholding value \epsilon (although Appendix A.8 presents a seemingly general way to define what this should be, it ultimately still depends on task-specific knowledge of how large the window should be, from which \epsilon is computed).
It would be nice to include a sensitivity analysis of this hyperparameter.
- Relabeling the goals with just demonstration states can fail to make the sparse-reward problem easier (as intended by HER) if the resulting goal distribution is still relatively narrow.
For example, we could imagine tasks with a wide initial state distribution and a large state space that the demonstrations only sparsely cover, and even reaching demo states can be difficult.
It seems like mixing the demo-driven goal distribution and distribution over reached states could lead to some benefits as shown in Appendix A.4.
- The choice of encoder seems to be quite important, with the TCC results being the closest to those with the hand-engineered features across the four tasks.
Finally, some of the implementation/experimental details are currently a bit unclear to me.
My questions are below: - Which encoder is used for the results in Table 1?
Do the other methods in Table 1 operate over the same latent representation as HinDRL?
Is the strong performance due to the proposed relabeling scheme or its combination with the extracted representation?
- What is p(z_g) in the definition of R_G?
Is this derived from the demonstration data, e.g., a uniform distribution over the set of demonstration states?
- What does the “number of hindsight goal samples” hyper-parameter refer to?
Is it the total number of hindsight goals, i.e., |R_G|?
- In Figure 7, why is there a dip in success rate for the different methods at around 60K environment steps?
Is this because the BC term in the actor’s loss is annealed away?
Minor comments: - The placement of the figures is a bit awkward.
For example, Figure 8 corresponds to Sec.
5.4 but is placed in Sec.
5.5; Table 6 corresponds to Sec.
5.2 but is placed in Sec.
Some of the figures also appear in the paper out of order.
- It’d be nice to have a consistent legend across the 4 plots in Figure 12.
The paper tackles an important and relevant problem: solving long-horizon tasks given a few demonstrations.
The experiments are quite thorough, but there are some missing details that seem critical to evaluating the performance of the method compared to prior work.
Also, it would be good to include a discussion of scenarios in which this goal relabeling method might fail, i.e., when reaching the demonstration states is difficult and so relabeling still doesn’t provide additional learning signal.
Strong Points + The final task used in the paper (“bimanual insertion”) is challenging enough to convince readers of the authors’ claim that the proposed algorithm is a meaningful improvement on learning long-horizon control tasks.
Authors’ breaking it down to several tasks by complexity is very helpful.
+ The empirical results are comprehensive and convincing.
Difference between the proposed algorithm and prior works is big.
+ The paper is well motivated.
The overall “storyline” is clear and makes sense.
Weak Points - The amount of novelty is mediocre.
The main innovation seems to be the new technique for hindsight relabeling.
- Technical clarity can be improved, especially in the way prior works are introduced in the Methodology section, which seems a bit high-level and requires readers to have substantial knowledge in the prior works to understand the full picture.
I’m curious to learn from the authors why HER (both the “final” and “future” variants) underperforms DPGfD in the Bring Near and Bring Near + Orient tasks, as shown in Table 1?
Overall I enjoy reading this paper.
While the novelty is not steller, the experimental results are convincing and impressive.
I recommend acceptance for broader dissemination.
Dear Authors, Thank you for your response!
While I agree that four tasks on the dual arm setups are diverse from a task perspective they are still on a very similar setup.
Reaching, aligning and insertion are all part of the same general task of cable manipulation.
The second robotic does not have the same complexity, thus I am not sure if it is long horizon.
While these clarifications are useful, I am not convinced that the method was evaluated in a diverse enough way.
I would like to thank the authors for their thorough responses to my questions, and the clarifications which they have provided which have helped immensely.
The clarification was quite helpful for the points about the encoder usage for baseline comparison, the differences between Nair et al.
(2018a), and the baseline coverage compared to relevant components of RIG.
This makes me more convinced of the effectiveness of the relabeling strategy based on the empirical evaluation.
I have revised my score accordingly.
The strengths of the papers are: 1.
It extends the learn to zoom approach for classification to segmentation tasks.
A deformable module is applied for downsampling the original image.
The upsampling processing is incorporated in the training phase.
The edge information is also used to guild the downsampling step which improves the segmentation performance.
The overall presentation of the method is great.
I have some questions about the paper.
The loss function consists of segmentation loss and edge loss.
A weight term is used to balance these two terms.
Is this the same problem as mentioned in Marin et.
al (2009) in the barrier of the SOTA section?
It would be better to add more text to generate the downsampled image (ex.
R^{52x100}) from low-res (ex.
Missing references: Kirillov, Alexander et.
al., Pointrend: Image segmentation as rendering, CVPR 2020 Huynh, Chuong et.
al., Progressive Semantic Segmentation, CVPR 2021
The method mainly extends the learn to zoom approach for classification to segmentation tasks.
Importantly, the edge loss is applied to guild the learning based downsample.
The authors present extensive experiments and analysis to assess the components of the method.
This method brings new ideas or approaches to handle high resolution images, especially in segmentation tasks.
The paper is well-written.
The problem, motivation, idea, and method are clearly stated.
Sufficient visualization is provided to make the paper easier to read.
Comprehensive experiments and analyses are conducted.
The results on three publicly available datasets are reported.
As the authors said, the proposed method is similar to [Recasens et al.
2018], so the novelty of the proposed method is somewhat limited.
However, the authors show that directly applying [Recasens et al.
2018] to segmentation tasks is not necessarily effective.
Hence, I agree with the authors that the proposed method is somewhat novel.
The paper is well-argued, and the proposed method is effective.
Novelty is somewhat limited but can meet the ICLR bar.
Strength: - This paper proposes a new deformed sampling module that explicitly downscale the image into target resolution.
The idea of making the network to learn the sampling density is very intuitive, and it is also adaptable to classical sampling functions.
- Besides, the author noticed the importance of regularization and added the edge loss in training.
- The proposed method is end-to-end trainable, and can be plugged into different backbone networks.
Weakness: Still, I have complex feeling about this paper: the motivation is really good: following all the previous works that try to improve the segmentation performance by allocating the computations to most important regions, the proposed module does make a lot of sense, and it's plug-and-play.
But when I read the experiment results, I find that it is not the module itself that brings the most difference, but the joint loss.
From Fig.5, it can be seen that adding the module trained with single loss is not as good as the uniform one at the most time.
This implies that the most important contribution of this paper is the joint loss.
Though, if this paper wants to illustrate the importance of joint loss that avoids the trivial solution, there are still some missing points to support this claim: - Not enough ablation studies.
If applying the joint loss on other methods, how the performance would be influenced?
- More analysis of why the single segmentation loss would not work.
After reading this paper, I still do not understand: why single loss would lead to a trivial solution?
I read the appendix and find the downsampling module consists of 3 layers of CNN with 3x3 kernel.
Since the other works in 2.1 all aim to cover multiple scale information, does it matter that this module only has this limited spatial window?
12 shows that the sampling density suddenly increases on the edge of the picture, even if the content is still solid-color.
Is this learned module vulnerable to noises in image?
Besides, since this work adopts a learned CNN module to predict the sampling density, and then conduct rescaling by interpolation, I wonder why not directly makes the network to directly downsample/super-resolve the input?
Such ideas are applied in "Learning to Resize Images for Computer Vision Tasks".
How does the proposed method compare with this paper?
Minor errors: - In the caption of Fig.
5, the last line should note "(c) a local prostate cancer histology dataset...".
Overall, this paper has good motivation and proposes an interesting method.
But after reading the whole paper, I felt that it is not the proposed method, but the joint loss that contributes most to the performance improvement.
Besides, this paper lacks of in-depth explanation of the performance drop when applying the single loss, and comparisons of several similar methods.
So I would give score 5 for now.
+ The paper is well motivated based on detailed description of the limitations of the closest recent work.
+ The results are detailed and well explained.
Although its an equation from another paper, it would help to have some definition of this variable.
- Eq 3 needs to be explained a bit better.
Also what is the kernel k in Eq.3 and how is it defined in the paper implementation.
The paper shows that jointly doing content driven subsampling and the high level task (semantic segmentation here) can lead to better results rather than doing them independently.
This idea may be propagated to other high level vision tasks which are limited by image size of training data.
Thus, the reviewer is inclined favorably towards this paper.
strengths --------- VPR represents a significant advance over previous models like CW-VAE (which requires a fixed "event detection" interval) and VTA (where event detection must be learned separately).
For the most part the method is clearly explained; Figs 1 and 2 are very helpful.
The 1D synthetic dataset is useful for understanding the method in a simple setting.
Do similar results to Fig.
4 emerge from the other datasets as well?
The layerwise rollouts are an interesting way to probe the representations at each layer.
concerns -------- I still don't fully understand the event prediction (specifically CE).
Though the paper does say in words what D_{st} and D_{ch} are (which is much appreciated), the fact that their comparison is a reasonable way to define a predictable event is not clear to me.
Does D_{ch} represent a difference we would expect from the structure of the model with/without seeing new data?
Why does it make to compare D_{st} to this?
Spelling this out a bit more clearly would help explain this crucial piece of the method.
How is the F1 score computed for change detection?
Do you arbitrarily define successive events (in both the data and the model) as 0->1->0->1->...
and then compute F1 on these binary sequences?
Would be useful to spell this out more clearly.
The current figure layout is convenient space-wise, but makes following the results harder than it needs to be.
Fig 4 legend is hard to parse.
* "CE" appears to be "CE with CU enabled"; what then is CE+CU?
* "CU disabled" appears to be "CE with CU disabled"; what then is CU?
CU only, but in the context of "CE with CU enabled"?
* why is there no CU curve in Fig 4A?
* why do 4A and 4C show different models?
would make more sense to show the same models under the noise and no-noise condition Fig 5A - do you have an intuition for why the color changes in L2 on every frame?
Given the frequency of these events (on wall bounce or otherwise with probability 0.1) I would have expected the model to learn slower transitions between colors.
Experiments are run with other baselines, but inconsistently.
Running VTA on the 1D synthetic data could be instructive, and would especially be interesting to see how it performs under different noise levels.
It should also be easy enough to add a CW-VAE curve to Fig.
This will perform terribly, but that also opens up an opportunity to revisit the fundamental differences between VPR and CW-VAE and why the new model is an advance.
I think both rollouts and random samples should be added in appendix figures for the CW-VAE and VTA.
In general, the results section could start off with an explanation of the datasets (as it does already) AND an explanation of the baseline models, and why those models were chosen.
That gives a bit more structure to (and motivation for) the comparisons made later on.
How will this model behave when there are slow, continuous changes in high-level features, rather than discrete changes?
For example, what if colors slowly cycled through hue space in the Moving Ball dataset (much more slowly than position)?
Would kind of features would VPR learn at L2?
Not suggesting this as an experiment to perform, but might be an interesting direction to address in the discussion.
This paper presents a novel, well-motivated method for inferring temporal hierarchy in latent representations of sequence data.
I lean towards accepting this paper, and would be willing to further increase my score if some of the concerns above (especially regarding the experiments) are addressed in revision.
I like the general idea of modeling change detection as the difference in divergences, I think this indirection is novel.
I miss some more details on the following things: * What is the generative model for the change detection?
To my understanding, change detection is modeled as an interplay between the inference model and the generative model, but shouldn't there be some part in the generative model alone that is handling 'changes'?
* Can you expand on the "non markovian property' of the model (paragraph before eq 5)?
I assume this makes s_t independent from all x_t', t' > t?
* A pseudo algorithm would be very helpful to see exactly where/how the decision to stop propagating information upwards happens.
* It would be great (but admittingly hard) to have more expressive datasets.
* Related to datasets: In a real world setting, I believe that one can have maybe a bit of time to look at a prefix part of a sequence to be handled, and needs to 'extract' the core properties of that sequence with respect to event onsets.
How could that be handled?
I assume this becomes some sort of meta learning?
* I think you should cite "Neural Sequnce Chunker" by J.
Schmidhuber and Unsupervised Real-Time Control through Variational Empowerment by M.
I believe the paper has a very nice core idea, and a well thought out 'harness' around that idea.
I miss more conceptualized explanations, and would have loved more experiments (and also more comparisons to comparable models).
Thank you for updating the paper with additional discussions and results.
The responses are by and large satisfactory and I have increased my score accordingly.
Thank you for clarifying the distinction between future event prediction and physical-timescale rollouts.
Section 4.4 and the revised section 5 now make this much more clear.
Also, thanks for your explanation about TD-VAE.
Still, I would recommend adding somewhere in the paper that a promising next step for this line of work is to explore using VPR as a world model for RL where it can be compared with relevant world models like TD-VAE.
This would help to position this work better within the relevant literature, I think.
Thanks for adding the results in Appendix C.6 for Miniworld Maze.
It looks like L2 and L3 occasionally fire on the same events and L3 occasionally misses some events, which I imagine correspond to false positives and false negatives.
Thanks for adding the sensitivity analysis results in Appendix C.4 as well.
Strengths: In my knowledge, the proposed method of learning hierarchical temporal structures by measuring prior and posterior belief states is new in the area of unsupervised representation learning for video data.
Weaknesses: My major concern is about the insufficient experimental results.
- The model is compared with VTA only on the Moving Ball dataset, which in my view, is not enough to validate the superiority of the proposed model.
The authors may consider to compare with VTA on a more challenging dataset such as Bouncing Balls.
I believe this dataset can better support the claim in this paper, because it has more obvious event changes represented by the interactions of multiple balls and is also used in the work of VTA.
- The model is not compared with any existing approaches on the other three datasets.
- How does the rollout result in Fig 5, especially the color of the object, support the claim in the caption that "the produced rollouts illustrate model’s ability to...produce accurate...jumpy rollouts"?
Other concerns: - How to determine the number of layers if we do not know how many latent factors (e.g., color, shape, floor...) there are in the environment?
- Although the authors claim in the appendix and the hyperparameters in Criterion U are robust across datasets, it is still not clear to me how to tune these hyperparameters.
It would be good if the authors can give a sensitivity analysis on them.
This paper explores an interesting problem of unsupervised representation learning in videos.
Although the hierarchical architecture based on latent variables is very similar to the temporal abstraction structure in VTA [Kim et al., 2019], I think the proposed criteria for event detection are novel and reasonable.
However, my major concern is about the insufficient experimental results (see my comments above), and so I give this paper a Weak Reject at this moment.
Comments: Originality & Quality: The paper proposes a stochastic gating based approach for l0-CCA which uses ideas from a couple of recent papers on gaussian relaxation of discrete/bernoulli random variables.
The resulting algorithm is straightforward and it is also possible to "backprop into it", so it is also amenable to non-linear "deep" extensions.
The results on various synthetic and real-world datasets show the superior performance of the proposed method.
While I like the proposed approach, there are a couple of questions/concerns that I have: 1).
The paper mentions that standard l0-CCA relies on greedy optimization and that the l1-CCA leads to parameter shrinkage.
Both these are valid concerns.
Though, it is unclear what recovery guarantees does the stochastic gating approach has?
Optimal subset selection is a NP-Hard problem, so clearly the proposed approach is also performing some approximation.
Can it be theoretically compared to the greedy l0-solution?
The paper shows predictive accuracies of the different CCA approaches on real-world datasets.
However, it doesn't show the number of features selected by the different methods and how they compare to each other.
If we only cared about predictive accuracy then why select features as shown by (Shalev-Shwartz et al.
And, also sparsity leads to interpretability so it is unclear how different approaches compare on that front.
Clarity: The paper is well written and puts itself nicely in context of previous work.
The overall presentation of the paper is good.
Significance: The paper addresses an important problem of sparse CCA using a l0 penalty.
The proposed approach uses stochastic gating to enforce sparsity which does not rely on a greedy/heuristic solution as previous l0-sparse CCA approaches.
An interesting paper that solves an "old" problem of sparse-CCA using some recent advances in stochastic gating based sparsity solution.
Results are comprehensive, but the focus is less on feature selection and more on predictive power.
If predictive power is the primary concern, why care about sparsity?
Idea of sparse non-linear CCA for N << D case is novel and interesting and is valuable for such real-world cases.
Loss function that minimizes correlation and increases sparsity provides a unique way to do feature selection for multi-modal cases.
Algorithm presented that does l_0 feature selection using Gaussian relaxed Bernoulli variables is interesting and novel application of for sparse-DCCA problem.
Empirical results on synthetic data show lowest error in learned correlations from sparse-DCCA compared to other SOTA techniques.
Results on multi-view, MNIST digits, Seismic event and METABRIC datasets show that technique is able to pick relevant input features in challenging noisy and high dimensional (N<<D) cases with few examples.
A strength of the presented method is that it is able to sub-select relevant features from high dimensional inputs so it is expected to perform well compared to techniques that are not specifically designed for that.
It would be helpful to see performance of sparse-DCCA for cases of N>>D compared to other techniques for comparison.
Novelty of the paper is extension of idea of nonlinear-CCA method to sparse case where where number of sample are less than max input feature dimensions (D) N << D.
Results presented are convincing and support technical details.
Authors present limitations do address limitations of proposed approach but would like to see performance for N>>D for sanity check as well.
There are no direct social impact issues or concerns.
This paper is technically sound and interesting, in that the authors demonstrate how sparse CCA with l_0 norm can be effectively solved, and how the sparsity constraint can be integrated into the deep CCA model.
My concerns lie mainly in the experimental section.
In the supplementary material, the authors mention that the parameters are optimized to maximize the correlation for the cancer classification task.
Why don’t choose parameters based on accuracy instead of correlation?
Does high correlation guarantee better accuracy or vice versa?
Are the parameters of all compared methods chosen in the same manner?
How are lambda_x and lambda_y selected since they directly control the sparsity of variables?
The authors claim that the proposed method is efficient in C.2 (Run Time Analysis), it seems that the model scales when k increases.
Besides, training a DCCA model for classification seems to be time-consuming.
Therefore, it is also important to compare the time complexity and running time (or training time) of compared methods.
In Table 2, why don’t the authors include the results of the proposed sparse CCA method?
The datasets included are mainly for vector-based applications.
Recently, there are several tensor-based CCA methods, it is interesting to also report results on some high-dimensional datasets, for example, Gait and JAFFE.
The paper is technically sound, but the authors should carefully revise their experimental section to address my concerns.
It is very critical to select relevant features from high dimensional multimodal data and such method is very demanding in lots of real cases.
One key strength of the presented method is that it is able to sub-select relevant features from high dimensional inputs and it showed better performance compared to others for predictive purpose.
The paper is well written, and the overall presentation of the paper is good.
How to select the most relevant features in the multimodal learning field is crucial for model interpretation and downstream analysis and it will have wide applications in biology or human genetics.
For those fields, researchers are more interested to select which gene, protein, or biomarkers are most important for disease development.
Even though the paper showed it’s outperformed predictive performance, however, it missed the detailed model interpretation part, feature selection.
I would be interested to see one biology dataset application for model interpretability on this method.
In figure 2, the wide range of lambda showed around 40 coefficients.
Please comment on how could the algorithm avoid the wrong number of coefficients?
How does the proposed method compare to other methods regarding accuracy vs sparsity?
I like the paper overall.
However, I think the model interpretation is more important than the prediction for multimodal learning/CCA, specifically, the key strength of this proposed paper is feature selection.
The topic of grammar induction has been there for a very long time in NLP and is a very fundamental topic.
The model was largely built based on an existing model for purely text-based grammar induction.
The model essentially makes use of neural networks to learn good latent representations (using a reconstruction loss) where the latent representation is defined with neural networks which yield scores for constituents and vector representations of them.
The approach adopts the classical inside-outside process for the computing of the scores.
The paper essentially investigates what might be the effective methods for integrating image information into text for improved grammar induction.
The execution of the paper was quite good, and the results are convincing.
However, I feel the overall model is essentially a way to use image information to regularize the grammar induction process.
Little can be said about in what precise manner the image is actively contributing to the induction process.
Indeed, the authors also acknowledged something along with what I thought in the final section.
Nevertheless, I think it is an interesting piece that might inspire future research on multimodal processing (for image + language).
I think this is a reasonable piece, with good writing and a nice set of experiments.
It would be helpful for future research in this domain.
Strengths: The idea of jointly inducing structure in natural language and grounding the constituents with real-world images is intuitively correct.
The ablation study also shows that both feature-level fusion and score-level fusion (including the contrastive loss, if I understand correctly) helps in improving the parsing results.
Weakness: 1) The image features are only used for computing the inside pass.
The image feature should contain information that can help predict the missing word, such that it could be used in the outside pass too.
Selecting the best image region for predicting the missing word is also an intuitively correct way to build the vision-language alignment.
2) The compute of sim(I, c_ij) includes a max operator, this could lead to a biased gradient.
3) As the author mentioned in the discussion section, the model doesn't consider the latent hierarchical structure of the image.
For example, the sentence describes the entire image, while each phrase describes part of the image.
Overall, the proposed method is interesting and inspiring.
The idea should be interesting to both unsupervised parsing and multimodel communities.
Thanks authors for your response!
I appreciate that most of my comments have been addressed.
I'm now inclined to raise my rating -- will update it after the discussion period concludes.
Consider an image that has several semantically equivalent captions with different syntactic structures, the image would have different parsings associated with different captions.
This is very unnatural to me on the vision side, especially when linking to how humans acquire language: we arguably don't parse the visual scene in exactly the same way as how we parse text.
The visual parses in this work are therefore less meaningful than text parses.
To clarify, I do not mean that modeling the visual structures in the current way is bad: it provides ways to better understand which visual part each text span corresponds to, and, from the engineering perspective, it enables easier fusion with text features.
However, the current paper and ablation study did not convince me that such the "unified" VL setting should be claimed as an advantage compared to existing work, instead of just one choice among many possibilities.
--- **Author Response**: "Recent SOTA approaches, e.g.
DIORA does select the best model based on the annotated dev data ( Appendix A.1 Early Stopping).
At the meantime, I am slightly worried about the hyperparameter settings (Appendix F): DIORA uses the PTB dev set for choosing the best parameters, while the authors choose their tuned hyperparameters, and only do unsupervised model selection.
Ideally, the hyperparameters should also be tuned based on the current development loss.
--- There are still some words that refer to part-of-speech tags as nonterminals (e.g., Section 3.2, Appendix E).
I'm looking forward to seeing these fixed.
Strength: (1) This work unifies the view of mutual information from the perspective of importance sampling.
This gives us another angle of thinking.
(2) Good summary of the prior literature (3) Clear theoretical analysis.
(4) The experiments provide evidence on the effectiveness of the proposals.
Weakness: (1) This paper is more of a theoretical flavor and there is no experiment to show this method is practically useful.
For example, is it useful to improve the prediction accuracy (using the learned latent representation z)?
(2) How about the efficiency of the proposed strategies.
information about the running time).
In the experiments, the author(s) have used tens of thousands of annealing steps, which may not be practically feasible.
Also, it is helpful to visualize the trade-offs in computing time and bound sharpness.
(3) I am curious about the stability of the training process.
(4) The method has limited applicability in real-world settings, Generative modeling for feature engineering is not used that often, mostly because it is so hard to assume the knowledge of a likelihood model for a machine learning problem.
Minor Comments: (1) Make clear distinction between empirical estimators and theoretical estimators.
For example, I_{BA} is theoretical and I_{IWAE} is empirical.
Please add hat over the empirical estimators.
(2) In Figure 1, Z_{T-1} is bigger than other circles.
Is there any different meanings?
(3) Table 1 is messy, tidy it up.
There too much data and at the first glance, no idea about where I should focus on.
Also, there is inconsistency in notations: in the first column, T=30K, K=1K.
Should change the capital letter K to lower case letter k.
The reviewer is convinced by the theoretical analysis of this paper and the novel perspectives it proposed.
It makes some valuable contribution to our community.
However, I am concerned about the practicability and efficiency of this method.
Strengths: * The authors present a comprehensive framework for mutual information bounds, called GIWAE, that unifies many existing approaches.
* Combining AIS with IWAE is elegant, especially when one can define a sensible approximation for $p(z | x)$ in the form of either a prior $p(z)$ or approximate posterior $q(z | x)$ as with a VAE.
The MINE-AIS extension is also intriguing due to its potential to extend the proposed techniques far beyond the VAE and GAN scenarios considered in this work.
* The experimental results are quite impressive and convincingly demonstrate the utility of the proposed method.
* The authors provide a comprehensive presentation of their method and an exhaustive review and comparison with other methods.
Weaknesses: * The MINE-AIS technique is not fully explored.
It would be interesting to see MINE-AIS applied in a scenario where the IWAE-type AIS bounds are not applicable (i.e.
when $p( x | z )$ is unknown) but this is not investigated.
* The core of the proposed method is previously suggested in a blog post by Sobolev.
I believe this is not a significant weakness because the impressive effectiveness of this approach was not previously demonstrated.
Other Comments: * I am unsure of why a single $z$ is used in the numerator but multiple $z$ are used in the denominator of (7) and other IWAE-type equations.
A brief explanation would aid my understanding.
Overall, this is an impressive work both in terms of its comprehensive mathematical presentation and its high-quality experimental results.
Personally, I find the experimental results to be the most interesting aspect, because it opens the possibility of accurate MI estimation in complex scenarios studied in contemporary generative modeling.
I recommend this work be accepted.
**List strong and weak points of the paper.
Be as comprehensive as possible.** **Pros:** * Generally, the paper is well written and easy to grasp the underlying ideas and concepts except how the data sampling works (see questions).
* The intorduction makes it very clear what the problem is this paper is trying to solve.
(see additional feedback) * A strength of Section 2+3 is that it bundles the theoretical formulas with intuitions in natural language, which makes it very clear at any time what the author trying to achieve or show.
**Cons:** * While the generated regression example is great to gain intuitions on how OSL works and the influence of its hyperparameters, it's difficult to draw conclusions in regard to "real" regression problems.
(see question) * The proposed concept of the mapping rank seems to not account for label noise explicitly - but I would guess that in the presence of label noise there could be a rank > 1 even though there is only one sensible target function?
* The experimental evaluation appears to be rather specific and the baselines appear not directly related to other state of the art approaches.
It would probably be a much stronger paper, if the authors showed that the proposed approach improves on some metric that is not specific to this submission * The paper do not show training and prediction times for OSL and the other baselines.
The introduced approach OSL solves the problem of allocating data from different domains to their model.
Currently, we often see very over-parametrized models that try to solve this implicitly.
OSL could present a path to more efficient ML.
**Ask questions you would like answered by the authors to help you clarify your understanding of the paper and provide the additional evidence you need to be confident in your assessment.** * Did you try at least a multidimensional generated regression?
I think it would be interesting to see the method comparison in at least >1-D generated regression, better for a datasets, e.g., form OpenML.
* Could you clarify how the data sampling mechanism works?
* It is still not clear to me whether the dataset X is sampled once or iteratively.
**Provide additional feedback with the aim to improve the paper.
Make it clear that these points are here to help, and not necessarily part of your decision assessment.** * The first paragraph after Definition 1 (introduction) is a bit lengthy.
Shortening to its main points (difference between R=1 and R>1, metadata difficult to use for data allocation) could improve clarity * Providing more description for Figure 2 and 3, especially, what the three lines show would add clarity * You should consider to move the description of the DNNs from appendix to the paper.
* Providing an overview of training and prediction times of OSL and the baselines could be interesting for some readers.
Interesting approach and novel concept of mapping rank, the experimental evaluation could provide more direct evidence for the value of the contribution.
Update after authors‘ response: The authors addressed all points and provided convincing additional experiments, I’m hence increasing my score.
While the intuition behind the problem and the proposed solution is clear, the method is not clearly explained.
In section 2.3, the connection between the M and E steps is not clearly stated.
More importantly, the difference between conflicting and non-conflicting domains is unclear.
From the overall algorithm, it seems to me that domains that do not share labels will be assigned to different hypotheses (even if, in principle, they could be mutually-exclusive labels), because a hypothesis previously trained on a different set of labels will not predict the new labels.
If this is the case, the only non-conflicting domains are those that share the same label set but maybe have differences in the input (like in a domain-adaptation setting).
In this case the method seems an overkill, as one can easily match the domains in the episodes by matching their labels (and the subjective error should be minimized this way).
The experiments seems to suggest that this is indeed the setting, because different domains correspond to different label sets.
Another unclear part is how the method is applied in testing.
Assuming that testing is made on an episode corresponding to a single domain, how is/are the appropriate hypothesis/hypotheses selected?
If the predictions of all of them are collected, this seems to boil down to a simple collection of multiclass classifiers (not sure what happens in the regression case).
Depending on the specific setting (to be clarified), there could be other (possibly simpler) competitors that are more appropriate.
The cross-domain fertilization is not evaluated in the experiments as far as I can tell (apart from the matching of domains with the same labels).
The paper is unclear in the description of the method, so much that some trivial solutions seem even more appropriate for the setting.
Substantial clarifications are needed to properly evaluate the quality of the contribution.
AFTER REBUTTAL: The authors did manage to address many of my concerns in their detailed rebuttal and extended experimental evaluation.
The difference between the proposed setting and the existing alternatives is now clearer and the advantage of the method better highlighted thanks to the novel experiments.
Some aspects are still a bit unclear (e.g.
how the method is applied at the test phase), but I am now more inclined towards acceptance.
I like the general idea of the paper and appreciate the framework that I consider as novel and well suited for publication in general.
I also find the technical part correct but did not check everything in detail.
Concerns are caused by the baselines in the empirical comparison.
The proposition of the framework clearly needs empirical support as the main argument is that a single classifier fails to learn all concepts properly.
There need to be more information provided on the baselines to better understand whether they are appropriate or not.
I am under the impression that the baselines may not be suitable to support the claims but this may be part of the rebuttal.
I would appreciate a better differentiation to other ensemble learning approaches as well as learning with many classes/labels as well as transfer learning approaches in the discussion.
Conceptually and theoretically strong but line of argument needs empirical evidence to work out.
Though evidence is provided in form of empirical results on three data sets, the baselines remain unclear.
This problem need to be solved before publication would be OK (could be straight forward to do so)
Strengths of the paper are: - The paper studies the important problem of learning on multiple domains with open-ended data.
Please clarify - There are some typos in the paper, e.g.
I find this paper very interesting.
The proposed approach is novel, yet simple, and clearly works well for the problem of learning from open-ended data.
I would recommend to accept this paper.
The paper innovatively proposes a new explainable framework that decomposes the information into target and background portion.
In contrast of previously used approximation-based, perturbation-based, additive feature attribution methods, the authors claim that the newly proposed method has the advantages of higher fidelity and node-level explainability.
Two popular GNN framework GCN and GAT are used as examples for decomposition operation, which demonstrates the methods compatibility to the current mainstream.
A new subgraph construction algorithm is also proposed to tackle the problem arising during finding most important subgraphs, i.e., it’s impossible to enumerate all subgraphs.
The quantitative evaluation shows in two metrics: Explanation AUC and time efficiency.
The proposed method significantly outperforms other benchmarked methods in at least one of the metrics (some benchmarked methods are only shown for Explanation AUC, not for time efficiency though), potentially making it a new choice under different use scenario.
A qualitative evaluation was also included for a visual check of the result quality.
The paper is well organized and clearly written.
Figures are provided with descriptive caption, including details needed for comprehension.
Datasets includes both synthetic datasets and real-world datasets for diversity.
The transition from absolute contribution scores to relative contribution score in Sec 4.1 is abrupt without detailed reasons.
Why are relative scores preferred?
Also, if they are preferred, why use absolute score in Sec 3?
Providing answers to these two questions will make the logic flow more smoothly.
The exclusion of Graph-SST2 dataset from quantitative evaluation raises the question of whether the model has a poor performance on this dataset and hence has little generalization power.
Providing the reasons for not including this dataset makes the benchmarking more supportive for the claimed superior model performance.
The limitation of the model was shown in the wrong prediction example in the qualitative evaluation but was not discussed in detail.
What could have caused the wrong prediction and how to circumvent them?
Missing related work that should be discussed: On Explainability of Graph Neural Networks via Subgraph Explorations (ICML 2021) Minor comments: 1.
In Figure 2, I assume the shade of color means the value of the score, but it is probably a better idea to explicitly state it in the caption or have a legend in the figure.
It would be preferred to include the statistics such as the number of graphs for synthetic datasets as well.
The paper innovatively proposes to decompose the information flow for explainability and provides a new algorithm to construct subgraphs to reveal more complex interactions.
This novel way of explaining graph component contributions give insights into a new explainable GNN framework and is potentially inspiring for other works.
The experiments also show its superior performance and time efficiency compared with other methods (although some related work is missing).
Thus, I am slightly positive of this paper.
====Post Response==== After reading the author response, they have indeed addressed some of my concerns.
However, after also reading through the other reviews and their respective replies, I am inclined to keep the score of "marginally above the acceptance threshold" because I am still more positive towards the work.
I have additionally increased the novelty and significance from a 2 to a 3.
Thank you for providing the reply, especially the details regarding my original concern about Graph-SST2.
Strengths: - The problem studied is of importance and interesting.
- The paper is generally well organized.
- Quantitative experiments are done, which is a plus for subjective topics like XAI.
Weaknesses: - Concepts are not defined or hard to follow.
- Qualitative experiments are hard to follow.
- Questions/unclear points regarding technical details.
- The decomposition method seems straightforward, especially the GCN decomposition (as it is largely linear).
- Some technical concepts are not defined or hard to follow.
The goal of explanation is to find the most important subgraph in $\mathcal{G}$ given $f(\mathcal{G})$.
The concept is vaguely defined.
What is the concept of 'important'?
Further, in the experiments, the task is actually to predict whether a node/edge is important or not.
This seems to deviate from the definition.
'We could compute the contribution score of any given node groups'.
However, the notion of 'contribution score' is not defined previously.
This makes this section hard to understand.
What does it mean 'the process goes from left to right'?
- The authors claim that 'existing works suffer from adversarial triggering issues (perturbation) or inaccuracy (approximation)'.
However, the claim is not supported, especially the perturbation-based drawback of unrealistic structures.
I think this point can be better supported by showing examples that perturbation-based methods indeed generate such samples.
At this point, I find it hard to evaluate the qualitative experiments.
- Questions regarding technical details.
- Section 3.1, $f: \mathcal{G}\mapsto \mathbb{R}^{|\mathcal{V}|}$ or $\mathbb{R}$.
It seems that the formulation only works on binary classification or regression.
Can this framework (respectively, DEGREE) be extended to the multi-class setting?
- Section 3.3 Intuition (2): ideally there should be little interaction between the target portion and the background portion.
However, in graphs, this intuition can hardly be satisfied because nodes are connected to each other.
How does the framework work when this intuition does not hold?
Or can you provide evidence that this intuition somehow holds in real-world data?
- Equation 13, this equation is hard to understand.
First, what does it mean $softmax(\mathbf{X}[t])$?
Second, what does it mean $\exp(|\mathbf{X}^\gamma[t]|)$?
Third, what does it mean to divide vectors with vectors (given that $\mathbf{X}[t]$ is a vector)?
- Please change the coloring of the figures such that they are visible when printed out.
- Section 4.2, how should we initialize $\mathcal{E}$, $\mathcal{S}_i$?
How should we tune the parameters $I, q$?
- How is the definition of 'importance' in Graph-SST2?
- Section 5, last paragraph, 'detect non-linear interactions', what does it mean non-linear interactions?
Does it mean language conjunctions such as 'if', 'but'?
In summary, this paper has its merits.
The paper tackles an interesting problem.
The proposed framework is generally sound.
The paper is organized well in general.
However, given its unclear points in experiments and technical details, I do not recommend acceptance at this point.
====Post Response==== My doubts and suggested weaknesses are addressed partly.
I am willing to suggest borderline accept.
The paper focuses on the explanation of GNN performance, which is an interesting and critical problem.
The paper proposes a reasonable method for the problem to decomposite the graph.
The experiments are also comprehensive.
However, there are still some points required to be clarified.
1, The new scoring function proposed in the paper uses a random walk process, so will the calculation process has a high time complexity and space complexity (storing sample graphs)?
2, In q · maxv′ r(v′), what is the impact of the hyper-parameter q on the subgraph expansion?
3, The AUC used in the experiments should be explained in detail.
For me, I have to search previous works to understand how to use it in GNN explanation issue.
It is not friendly to common readers.
The paper is easy to follow and has a reasonable method.
Besides, the comprehensive experiments, especially the visualization of results, verify the effectiveness of the proposed method.
I surely recommend acceptance after my above doubt is solved.
The main concern of this paper is the decomposition assumption.
Because of the nonlinearity property in neural networks, how to decompose to the target portion and the background portion for the input features/representations.
It likely has potential interactions between the target portion and the background portion.
Most of their methods are proposed to employ score decomposition.
The subgraph-level interpretation search algorithm has been already explored by others [4].
It would be better if authors can compare with them.
Meanwhile, it would be better if authors can compare with other explanations methods in the qualitative evaluation section.
Strengths: - The paper is written very well.
The introduction provides a good motivation and challenges and illustrates the use cases clearly using examples.
The related work compares the proposed approach with other memory-based neural models.
The description of methods is concise, but sufficiently detailed.
- The proposed approach is original to the best of my knowledge.
The key idea is very intuitive and motivated by insights from cognitive science literature.
- The authors perform experiments on a wide variety of tasks including a toy task for detecting equilateral triangles, multi MNIST Generation, object tracking, relational reasoning, physical reasoning and Atari video games.
I also like that the authors use different types of backbones (Transformers and RIMs) in different experiments which indicates the proposed Shared Workspace method is not specific to certain kind of backbones.
Weaknesses: - Although the authors perform experiments with wide variety of tasks, multi-agent tasks are missing where I believe coordination is more important.
In all the tasks used in the paper, different neural modules process different parts of the input to make a common prediction.
Multi-agent tasks are more challenging as each agent would get a different input but also predict a different action.
- It is unclear how certain hyper parameters are chosen.
For example why is the patch size 4x4 in equilateral triangles, 6x6 in object tracking?
The number of memory slots, size of memory slots, etc.
different across different experiments.
- The authors propose two versions of Shared Workspaces, soft and hard (SSW and HSW).
Some experiments one contain a single version.
Why are both SSW and HSW not evaluated in all the experiments?
The paper proposes a novel method for coordination between neural modules which is well motivated.
The experiments are comprehensive although some details are missing.
Addition of multi-agent tasks would make the paper stronger.
Edit after author response: I read the author response and I would like to maintain my positive rating.
Novel and significant contribution by proposing a new mechanism for inter-subnets information exchange/learning.
Of high relevance to the ICLR community.
The generic approach cuts across different AI discipline as the experiments are performed on vision, language and reasoning tasks.
Experiments are comprehensive and well-explained.
Weaknesses Minor: Some technical details are not elaborated for readers who are less familiar with the respective topics.
For example, the section on the key-query-value attention mechanism is quite brief.
It's the key contribution on the success of the proposed approach.
Paper proposes a novel approach which produces commendable experimental results across a wide range of tasks in vision, language and reasoning.
The impact of this work is very significant and is of high relevance to the community.
While I am not entirely familiar with the cited prior work on key-query-value attention mechanism which forms the backbone of the proposed approach, the entire paper is very well-written and comprehensible.
I enjoyed reading this paper!
I think the strengths fall into three main categories: good problem setup that took the reader from concept to formulation well, an interesting idea with good scoping, and an impressive experimentation suite.
More details: **Good problem setup:** I found the discussion of advantages of a shared workspace compelling.
The proposed structure is intuitive and simple, but nonetheless convincing about its claimed advantages of higher-order communications, dynamic filtering, and complexity advantages.
The qualitative parts of the writing are strong, effectively building a case for reading this paper.
**Interesting idea with good scoping:** I appreciate that this is one architectural change that considers all inputs and outputs, and shows its advantages over the right baselines.
This work avoids the trap of making minor changes and then being unable to really ablate them.
The paper does seem to be a unification of existing ideas, but I distinguish that from (and prefer it over) merely concatenating existing ideas.
**Impressive experimentation suite:** There are of course many experiments with thematic consistency, which is great - always better than papers with two testbeds and virtually the same experiment over and over.
The first four testbeds make a nuanced point about sparse inputs, and the results on Atari are particularly exciting because they make a general claim and show significant improvement.
My critiques are as follows, in order of significance: **Content** 1.
Main critique: the goals of this paper seem to be to show that accuracy and performance improve **overall**, with a mechanism of higher order communications, dynamic filtering, and linear complexity that we will be convinced are attributes of the SW.
This paper doesn't quite get there, though it gets part of the way there.
From my understanding, Triangles, CATER, and Sort-of-CLEVR all tell us that the higher-order communication and single channel will help identify relevant information earlier in the pairwise communication, leading to faster convergence - *if* information is sparse in the input.
The MNIST generation experiment tells us something similar about independent regions in inputs.
Figs 4 and 5 are convincing to this end.
However, the main claim - higher-order communication and a sparser connection of graphs - help for inputs with sparse information in various locations - is less surprising than a claim of general improvement.
Even if that's still interesting (it is), the intro and conclusion seem to make a more general claim.
Physical reasoning and Atari show more general improvement (and the results on Atari are impressive), but they're also the weakest, most qualitative parts of Sec 4.
The ideal solution would be more robust testing of general improvement in these two testbeds, but if not then I would at least appreciate a claim that acknowledges the common and specific nature of the first four testbeds.
This is the crux of the motivation behind my score: I worry that this paper overstates its claim and the real claim is elegant but not that surprising.
It's made even murkier by a couple promising results that receive little attention.
Relatedly, the Atari section makes a claim about considerable improvement due specifically to more appropriate modularization.
That would be cool and a real testament to this approach, but I would need more specific experimentation to demonstrate that the effect really was more appropriate modularization.
The mathematical formulation is quite clear, but it's not presented clearly.
I had to puzzle over the paragraph for a while, not because it was overly complicated but because it took a lot of treasure hunting to find all the parts and put them together.
The issue is that the *Notation* and *Step 1/2/3* sections write the math into large blocks of text without pause.
It would be more helpful to present some end-to-end equations, then break those down in text.
It can be unclear without doing it myself whether something is being element-wise updated, transformed, dotted, etc.
I really appreciate the slew of testbeds.
However, that's how they come across: a laundry list of experiments, one after another, even though they support similar claims.
That robustness can be shown by having a claims-driven structure for the results section rather than a testbed-driven structure, which to the reader is arbitrary and doesn't deliver the important information as well as it could.
section titles like "Performance advantage on sparse data", then talk about the different results that show it.
If one experiment shows multiple advantages, multiple sections can still point to the same figures.
The figures are confusing - they are cramped, small, and have lots of acronyms I have to hunt down in various parts of the paper.
They're all helpful content-wise, but this could be shown better with something as simple as better aesthetics and tagging.
Nit: the text seems to switch between "specialist" and "neural module".
Are these the same thing?
Is "specialist" an abstraction/metaphor for "neural module"?
Is "neural module" an example of "specialist"?
All of those are great, just signpost and explain the switch.
Interesting idea with good scoping 3.
Impressive experimentation suite **Critiques:** *Content:* 1.
The experimentation on general improvement is a bit weak.
Formulation is clear, but it's presented piecemeal in long paragraphs that make it hard to parse and put together.
Since the formulation is simple (a good, elegant thing), it's frustrating to spend a lot of time hunting down all the pieces.
Excellent thoroughness in testbeds, but the results don't have to be presented in such a process-driven way.
They can and should be claims/driven.
The figures need to be more readable 4.
"Specialist"/"neural module" distinction is unclear (see main review)
Interestingness of the approach The proposed method is appealing since it applies a theory from cognitive science (the global workspace theory) to information processing in networks.
The implementation of the idea is quite simple - individual ‘specialist’ units interact with a shared memory layer instead of with each other directly, and the shared memory then broadcasts information back to each of the specialists.
The exact means by which this interaction is carried out is by using key-value attention.
This approach when applied to transformers leads to much higher computational efficiency (linear instead of quadratic in the sequence length).
Further research in probing similar ideas for much more efficient information processing, backed by ideas from cognitive science, would be very beneficial for the field in my view and this paper would help the community in that regard.
These environments include object tracking (CATER), relational reasoning (sort of CLEVR) and Atari games.
The authors also include details about the experiments and algorithm implementation in the appendix, which will aid in reproducibility.
I am concerned whether the framework proposed here will also be effective in settings where this is not necessarily the case, such as general modeling of language and images.
For example, adding shared workspace to transformers imposes a communication bottleneck between representations at different positions of the sequence.
It is possible that for problems where the solution does not depend on only a small portion of the input, considering the pairwise relationships of representations at every point in the sequence is critical for good performance.
To study this, the shared workspace model would have to be evaluated on larger, more unstructured datasets, where transformer based architectures have already been demonstrated to do well (for example the data on which GPT-2 was trained).
Adoption of this approach would be much more widespread if the authors can demonstrate that on these larger datasets, training transformers with the shared workspace doesn’t lead to worse performance than training the regular transformer based models that are currently used.
The paper proposes an implementation of an interesting theory from cognitive science for more efficient information processing in networks, by making connections between entities sparser.
While there is extensive evaluation on environments, most of these involve processing a small portion of the input.
The paper will be made a lot stronger if the approach can be shown to scale to larger more unstructured datasets where transformers are known to work well.
This submission looks more like a working draft rather than a conference paper.
(2.9) - I would like to point out the paper "Autoencoding any Data through Kernel Autoencoders" by Laforgue et al., 2019 which considers a similar framework as the one introduced at the top of page 3.
A Representer Theorem is also proved therein, as in [Bohn et al.
There isn't a clear division between a background and contributions section, so it is difficult to see the distinction between the background and the contributions.
Nonetheless, it appears that the only contributions are to notice that deep kernel learning can be understood within their framework (Sec.
3.2) and to do a toy experiment on 2D data (Sec.
This is simply not sufficient for a paper at a major machine learning conference, so I am forced to recommend rejection.
Very limited theoretical and empirical results.
While I like the idea underlying this paper I found the paper somewhat unsatisfying.
Specifically: - unclear/lack of attribution: particularly for the background material, several theorems and definitions are taken almost word-for-word from Lin et al, 2019b.
For example the definition of RKBS corresponds to definition 1.1 in Lin et al, the feature-map construction is the boxed text on page 4 of Lin et al, and theorem 2.1 is the same in both this and Lin et al.
While I understand that re-wording is often tedious, at the very least a simple parenthetical citation (for example "Theorem 2.1 (see theorem 2.1 in Lin et al): ...") seems to be called for.
- Related to the above, theorem 2.2 uses notation $A^\vdash$ that isn't (as far as I can tell) introduced at all in the submission, which makes understanding somewhat difficult.
- Continuing on the question of notation, what is $e_{k_2}$ in section 3.1?
I'm working on the assumption that this is some form of basis vector set (after all this is vector-valued regression) but this needs to be clarified.
- Perhaps I am wrong, but (3.13) looks like it would, in practice, act like an RKBS with a N hyper-parameters and \mathcal{O} (N^2) computation time.
I am curious how this affects the performance of an algorithm using such a kernel - in my experience kernels this complicated can have a severe effect on training and evaluation times, particularly for large datasets!
- The experimental section is unsatisfactory.
A single experiment is described, but the size of the training set is not specified.
50 trials are completed, but no error bars are included.
A link to code is given but the algorithm is not described and training issues (training times etc) are not discussed.
To be clear I think this avenue of research is fascinating and potentially important, but I feel that the deficits of the paper need to be addressed first.
- The premise is interesting.
- The clarity of attribution in the background section needs to be worked on.
- "Niche" notations used but not defined.
- Experimental results on a single dataset without important details (training set size, training times, details of training algorithm etc0.
Pros: * very good accuracy Cons: * many doubts need to be cleared about the theory * the connection between the theory and the experiments is unclear The theory is unclear: * Does it only apply to sequences with constant inter-spike intervals (ISI), as Fig 1a suggests?
The fact that they focus on the spike counts (gamma) also suggests that.
If true, this is a strong loss of generality, which should be properly acknowledged.
Also, I don't understand how the theory can help with DVS datasets, in which the ISI are highly variable.
If false, then Fig 1 should show variable ISIs, and the authors should justify why they can summarize a spike train by its spike count.
* Lemma 1 seems wrong: what if no input spike?
Then changing G has no effect on the response...
* Does the theory work in continuous or discrete-time?
The equations suggest continuous time.
But a timestep is mentioned on page 4.
Plus BPTT works in discrete-time.
The connection between the theory and the experiments is not clear to me.
Does the theory only suggests heterogeneous neurons and skip connections, but then the training is done with normal BPTT (or STDP)?
Does the theory also justify the use of learned and transferred synapses?
BTW, these concepts are obscure to me.
Isn't it equivalent to having a set of weights that is shared between neurons (like in a convolutional layer)?
MINOR POINTS: * Eq 1: you should say that a is the resting potential * Eq 2: don't use t for the integration variable * Table 1 should specify the number of timesteps * Table 3 should include:
Potentially interesting given the accuracy, but unclear
I have read the revised paper and believe that there is a great improvement, in which the theorems and lemmas are more rigorous and the corresponding proofs are more formal and easier to proofread.
In the current version, the contributions of this paper will be better exhibited.
So I tend to accept this paper and arise my score to 6, although there are still many inappropriate points in the current version.
The following lists some suggestions: - It is better to specify the relation between Eq.
(2) by clearly invoking $I(t) = \mathbf{G} \sum_{i} \delta\left( t-t^i \right)$.
- Or provide an appropriate reference, e.g., [1], to indicate the source of Eq.
- Many symbols are redundant.
- The manuscript has areas, especially the description of lemmas and proofs, with awkward phrasing and some grammatical errors throughout and should be proofread.
For example, what's the spike period function $P(t)$ in Theorem 1?
Besides, I do not agree that the proof for the least upper bound in Lemma 4 is reasonable.
It is not trivial to show the minimum of the upper bound of the path number.
Anyway, the authors have also struggled a lot of efforts, so be it, I hope to see a better camera ready, if luckily accepted.
[1] Time structure of the activity in neural network models.
My major points I have outlined have been well addressed.
In particular, the additional studies now support the theory sufficiently well.
The proposed approach significantly improves the performance.
But there is one small thing I would like to add.
Fig 6.: Please use the same range for the colour bars in both plots, so that the improvement can be seen more clearly.
Anyhow, I recommend a publication Recommendation: 8: accept, good paper
### Strength: First of all, the question addressed in the paper is essential for both the machine learning and neuroscience community and the author aim at addressing in a well-written piece of work that also clearly contextualizes and motivates the issue at hand.
This work uses a state-of-the-art neural architecture, instead of a reduced version of models as is often the case in this type of work.
The authors also propose a good analysis and clearly lay out their results, although their interpretation is one of the weaknesses of the paper.
### Weakness: Although it is true that this work has many strengths it is hard to overcome the following weaknesses, which question the motivation of the approach undertaken.
First, there exists a set of more principled approaches that have been developed over the last 4-5 years for training ANNs in a biologically plausible way.
Second, the results obtained are very subjective to the authors as the result of the improvement of the score is minor.
Although it is true that we don’t expect the authors to solve how the visual system develops and that this work corresponds to a proof of principle, it is still hard to navigate the plausibility of the assumptions made among all possibilities.
On the other hand, there is a large set of work that has been proposed to build biologically plausible deep neural networks starting from clear objective function minimization and enforcing locality of learning rules.
Compared to this set of works this one seems more adhoc than principled.
This represents an important weakness when addressing the more neuroscience-friendly community.
Indeed the approach proposed is more of a combination of existing approaches rather than a novel idea: the use of training of a subset of layers, different weights initialization based on the distribution of trained weights.
It is not clear how this provides new insight to the statistical learning community.
This paper is well-written and addresses an important question possibly helping bridge neuroscience and machine learning.
However, this work falls short on both the relevance of the experimental results and the ad-hoc nature of the proposed approach.
## Strengths The paper addresses an important problem in theoretical neuroscience: while trained deep networks appear to be good models of the visual stream, the amount of training they need to get there is incompatible with biology.
Two of the proposed approaches to reduce the amount of training are somewhat straightforward: training for fewer epochs and freezing the amount of trained layers.
However, I think the provided results are important as they show good fit to brain data can be achieved without closely following the training procedures of deep learning.
The last approach, weight clustering, is perhaps more interesting to the theoretical neuro community, as it works in the same way as genomically encoding the network (the “at birth” state).
Importantly, the proposed ways to reduce the amount of training are tested not only using ImageNet performance, but also ventral stream data, which is arguably more important for neuroscience.
Overall, the paper presents a novel set of results for an important problem, and supports its claims with a significant number of experiments.
## Weaknesses As mentioned before, I think the weight compression part is the most valuable one, and therefore it should receive more attention in the paper.
Clustering should be better explained in the main text.
Especially how the number of clusters was chosen.
4, you discuss how many bits it would take to encode different networks.
I think the same should be done for your experiments.
what is the size of CORnet-S vs.
the size of a compressed network?
I think similar weight compression techniques have been used before, see for example 4.
In general, it’d be interesting to see how at-birth performance changes with the amount of “genetically encoded” information, i.e.
the number of clusters passed through compression.
E.g., would doubling the amount of clusters you use drastically improve performance?
I’m not expecting this experiment to appear in the paper, but perhaps it’s worth discussing.
The majority of results is limited to one architecture, CORnet-S, which is not a very standard deep learning model.
However, I think it is OK as repeating the experiments on something like ResNet50 would be very resource-consuming, and CORnet-S appears to be a better model of the visual stream anyway.
## Recommendation As the paper addresses an important problem with a novel approach and extensive experiments, I recommend to accept the paper.
## Minor points In Fig.1, were learning rates tuned individually for each length of training, or were short runs just snapshots of the longer ones?
If it’s the latter, I’d imagine you can get better results by cranking up the learning rate and later decreasing it before you hit a plateau (e.g., by spacing out the same three LR decreases within a shorter run).
I guess doing it for each point in Fig.1A is too much training, but repeating all points in Fig.1B-C should be possible?
Basically, you show that reducing the amount of updates in backprop retains good Brain-Score performance.
But that probably tells more about SGD dynamics in deep networks rather than a specific loss function, and might easily translate to, say, more realistic self-supervised learning.
(I guess you briefly mention this point in the discussion.) > Abstract > First, we find that only 2% of supervised updates (epochs and images) are needed to achieve ∼80% of the match to adult ventral stream.
80% of the best performing network -- currently it reads as 80% of absolute performance, which would presumably be 1.0 Brain-Score?
The caption of Fig.3C-D should better explain what exactly is trained in each setting In Sec.6, you should specify that you used MobileNet V1 and ResNet-50.
The paper provides novel results and important evaluations.
There are some methodological issues, but they are not critical to the main point.
I therefore favor acceptance.
The Marcus book predates deep learning.
Grossberg focuses on catastrophic forgetting.
Zador focuses on the sparsity of labelled data in life.
I am not sure whether the number of weight updates needed to train deep networks presents a substantial independent concern about their biological plausibility, particularly given the possibility of constant unsupervised learning.
If the issue has been raised in the literature, more specific references would help here.
If not, I think the authors should argue more specifically that it is a problem, before going on to solve it.
- The cluster-based initialization method seems to be presented as a way of bringing some learning results through a genetic bottleneck, but the biological plausibility isn't obvious.
Further discussion of how this relates to and departs from biology would be helpful.
- It's interesting that critical training worked so well, but in the context of the paper's goals, the biological relevance of this method should also be laid out more clearly.
Minor: - I don't think it was shown how classification performance is affected by the cluster-based initialization method, but it would be nice to see that.
- "37 bits per synapse (Zador, 2019)" This refers to the binary connectivity pattern (an issue of architecture) rather than the weights (which are addressed in this paper).
I think the approach and the results are new and interesting, but I have reservations about the motivation for the work and its connection to biology.
The authors present thorough analyses of standard feedforward networks that quantitatively demonstrate that such networks can model the visual stream well while requiring far fewer coordinated parameter changes than occur with traditional training methods.
In particular, they show that very little supervision is required for strong matches to neural responses, that plausible distributions of initial random weights can match neural responses very well, and that weights can be updated very sparsely while still achieving quite high neural response matches.
Such findings are highly relevant to allowing for such networks to be more plausibly accepted by the neuroscience community as valid models of cortical networks.
The striking finding that well-chosen random weights (Weight Compression) can predict neural responses with more than 50% accuracy is especially interesting, as it suggests that indeed there may be less training required in mammalian brains compared to randomly initialized neuronal networks.
This possibility opens up further avenues of study relating to the ability of real brains to learn with far fewer examples compared to ANNs.
Figure 4b further demonstrates this possibility, showing that, under the ethologically relevant condition of little supervision, WC + Critical Training, where only a small subset of weights in so-called critical layers are trained, greatly outperforms traditional training.
We note that, in the ideal case, a biologically plausible method might be found that performs well both under little supervision, as WC+CT does here, and under a large amount of supervision, as traditional backprop does, the demonstration of principle for the former case already represents appreciable progress.
However, little in the way of tying model predictivity to accuracy on another task was explored.
While tying brain predictivity to network performance is of course a very active area in its own right, we feel that addressing this directly within the context of the present work would facilitate readers' abilities to contextualize the present study with respect to ANN performance.
Overall, we find the authors' presented work to be of great interest to those interested in applying ML models to theoretical questions in neuroscience and to have a thorough set of analyses that both illustrates progress in this area while suggesting future avenues of work.
Minor: - opening quotes are backwards throughout paper
The authors provide a compelling case that much more biologically plausible sets of initial conditions and sparse, selective supervision and synaptic updates might help substantially close the gap in viewing deep networks as plausible visuocortical models.
This paper identifies and tries to tackle an important problem in recommender systems - insufficient overlapping.
The theoretical proof is given to show the uncertainty of the results.
Generally speaking, the paper is well-written and well-presented.
Though many mathematical theorems are contained in this paper, it is easy to follow for readers.
The proposed method is novel and can inspire future research in recommender systems.
The experiments are sufficient to validate the claims.
There are some small typos that should be fixed before publication.
In claim 1, E_Q R(f) should be E_Pw R(f).
In Table 1, the Hit@10 of DT-MCF on LastFM is 81.81(20).
I am confused as 20 is pretty high, and maybe here is (0.20) or (.02).
In Section 5, we randomly sample m < |I| items and see if i' is among the top-K of these m items.
items should be unrelated items.
Also, the same questions occurred in other parts.
I suggest to double-check that.
\mu is also an important hyperparameter, and authors also mentioned that a suitable \mu will give us the opportunity to better explore the whole feedback data.
I recommend that the parameter sensitivity of \mu should be conducted.
The main contribution is to address the insufficient overlapping problem that causes the uncertainty of IW and DA-based methods.
However, in the experiment part, IW and DA-based methods are not compared with.
I recommend that DT-IW and DT-WA should be included.
The motivation is somehow unclear and the presentation of introduction could be further improved.
A more detailed explanation about the relationships between intervention and domain adaption, intervention and the proposed method, why the proposed method can address insufficient overlapping problems, etc should be introduced.
The novelty of this paper is high.
However, the motivation is not quite clear, and more IW- and DA-based methods are expected to compare in the experiment.
The authors build the argument around “transportability of patterns”, but I feel the point is never fully explained.
If an action is never taken under a certain context in the past, (meaning is in the non-overlapping set), the algorithm will have to extrapolate the outcome.
In order for the extrapolation to hold some assumptions need to be made about the reward model, and I find the authors do not really spend time on this.
* The resulting objective is closely resembling the counterfactual loss proposed in [1], eq.
I think the authors should expand on this approach in the related work, and highlight that unlike in the cited work, they can choose the counterfactual world in which they want to act.
Furthermore, I think borrowing either the counterfactual notation or the policy learning notation and vocabulary would help quite a lot in explaining the approach.
Overall, I liked the paper and I found the approach interesting.
I think the authors should link their approach a lot more to the work presented in [1] and also covered in two of their references [2,3].
I think by doing so, it clarifies that the main difference in the problem domain is that we are in control of which of the counterfactual worlds we want to compute the risk in.
Otherwise, all of the vocabulary and the core explanations of the soundness of the approach remain the same.
[1] @inproceedings{shalit2017estimating, title={Estimating individual treatment effect: generalization bounds and algorithms}, author={Shalit, Uri and Johansson, Fredrik D and Sontag, David}, booktitle={International Conference on Machine Learning}, pages={3076--3085}, year={2017}, organization={PMLR} } [2] F.
Support and invertibility in domain-invariant representations.
In The 22nd International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, pages 527–536.
Generalization bounds and representation learning for estimation of potential outcomes and causal effects.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.07426, 2020.
The motivation is still not very clear.
The authors still do not give a clear motivation of why this problem is important in real-world RL systems.
Theorem 1 and Theorem 2 are only the finite sample bounds under $P$ but not the transfer generalization bound w.r.t the target distribution like Proposition 1.
It is unclear to me why Theorem 1 and Theorem 2 can resolve the insufficient overlapping problem mentioned for using DA in the IR system.
Why does Theorem 2 state that the learned policy (the one that minimizes the transportation-constraint risk) is close to the oracle policy in terms of the target risk?
Should the target risk be under $Q$?
I can not find any risk on $Q$ in Theorem 1 and 2.
Thanks for your additional experiments and results.
The paper views recommender systems from a new perspective, which is similar but different to existing works in causal collaborative filtering.
The theoretical analyses are comprehensive.
The experimental studies are conducted in synthetic data, offline data and online data, which can well demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
I have the following questions/concerns about this paper: 1.
It seems to me that the proposed method can outperform IW methods when the overlap between the source and target domains are insufficient.
However, there is no measurement about the insufficiency.
It will be better to have some theoretical or empirical analysis about how the overlap between different domains can affect the performance.
It is hard to directly compare the bounds derived by the paper, e.g., between Theorem 3 and Proposition 1.
This will be important to intuitively understand the advances of the proposed method.
The online evaluation used the Deep and Wide method.
But the same method is not evaluated in the offline setting, which seems unreasonable.
The proposed method tries to optimize recommendation algorithms via a minimax game, which could be much more complicated than other baselines.
Thus, it would be necessary to analyze the efficiency of the proposed method in the experiments.
In summary, this paper targets at an interesting problem and shows promising theoretical and empirical results, which could be helpful for the community of recommender systems.
The proposed method is novel and opens potential for new line of research in graph grammar.
I personally find the submission to be clear and well-written.
Overall, I am positive and would like to give a "accept".
However, I have few more comments that I hope to help improve the paper.
Several of them are around the modeling choices and some of them are to clarify my understanding of the practical usefulness of the proposed method.
The proposed method uses pretrained graph neural network to generate the sampling weights and claim that this can be replaced by any plug-and-play feature extractor.
Can the authors provide data to support this claim?
If this is actually true, I would suggest to use the simplest feature extractor to keep the proposed method clean.
Is the REINFORCE algorithm stable across random seeds?
My hunch is that they are not.
Can the authors provide error bars in for their data?
Can the authors provide convergence curves to demonstrate the learning?
While the proposed method is efficient, I have the impression that it does not scale up well to more data (the authors have to subsample the training set for the experiments in Table 3).
My first request is for the authors to report the actual computation time for the proposed method on the experiments they have done.
Second, aside from the computational challenge, can the proposed algorithm benefit from more data?
If so, can we estimate how much we can gain by including the whole training set of the large polymer dataset?
I find the proposed method to be novel and effective.
the paper is clear and well-written.
I have a few comments around modeling designs but I think the comments are addressable.
Strength: This method is very data efficient given grammar-based learning.
The hypergraph contraction-based production rule learning process is very novel (at least from my perspective).
Weakness: It seems like the model can only work on a small set of molecules to generate the rules due to the computational complexity.
The way this model learns the production rule is actually very related to a domain called task-based learning, where people tend to optimize their model towards some non-differentiable evaluation metrics.
The authors should reference some of those works, e.g.
"Task-Based Learning via Task-Oriented Prediction Network with Applications in Finance", "Task-based End-to-end Model Learning in Stochastic Optimization".
Due to the novelty of this data-efficient grammar-based molecule generation method and its impressive performance, I recommend to accept this paper.
This is a pretty solid contribution.
Although the paper is written clearly, I admit I had trouble trying to understand the method initially, but once I got the big picture, everything lined up nicely.
The methodology in itself (generative learning through graph grammars) is not new, and the proposed model presents some similarities to the HMG model of Kajino.
However, it draws from previous methods in a clever way and addresses most of their limitations (for example, the production rules involve substructures instead of single atoms).
This, in my opinion, is a plus.
The main advantage of this model is its data efficiency, which the experiments corroborate nicely.
Nonetheless, I have a few points I would like the authors to address before I give complete acceptance.
1) It is unclear to me what is the computational cost of constructing the grammar and training the model since generating the production rules involves graph matching (and although you affirm this isn't an issue).
How does your training/grammar inference cost compares to other approaches?
2) "we also show that with more training data (0.3% of the whole dataset), our method can achieve better performance".
I might have missed it, but where is this shown?
3) Why are some results in the tables underlined?
You should explain it in the captions.
4) This is more of a request for clarification.
How is the final set of grammar rules chosen?
If I understood correctly, the bottom-up construction process generates a lot of near-duplicates, as well as potentially useless production rules, especially during the initial iterations.
Is there any pruning process after the optimization has been performed, or just everything is kept?
5) How many rules does the grammar construction process produce in the datasets you evaluated?
I am decidedly leaning towards acceptance.
In my opinion, this is a strong contribution that deserves to appear at ICLR.
I will most likely raise my score to an 8 after the authors will answer my questions and modify the text accordingly where needed.
This paper proposes a generic solution for learning to generate graphs in an extreme few-shot manner where only dozens of examples are provided, which is pretty common in the polymer/monomer domain.
The method is general and can have a large impact on the graph learning community.
Although technically the proposed method is similar to some previous work like MHG[1], it cleverly preserves the class-specific properties by operating on subgraphs instead of individual atoms.
Also, the idea of learning a grammar search algorithm using RL instead of directly learning the grammar is novel and interesting in the domain.
The proposed method is well-supported by experiments on datasets of different scales.
The paper is well-structured overall but there is still room for improvement.
The notation in section 4 is a bit unclear.
In section 4.1 the subscripts are usually used for denoting the number of iteration, and the superscripts are used for different connected components.
While in section 4.2 right before Equation (3) we see there is $e_t^{(j)}$, where the meaning of superscript $(j)$ is unclear.
And $t$ here is used both for denoting the current iteration and the total number of iterations.
For the experiment section, both Appendix A and Table (3) contain critical information for understanding the experiment setting and results, and so they should be put earlier in the main text.
The paper proposes a clean algorithm for learning grammar.
But in practice, there must be a lot of hyperparameters to tune, such as the number of production rules, the maximum/minimum length of a single production rule, etc.?
How do you decide these parameters?
Do you do any pruning for the production rules?
The main text does not mention how to generate molecules using the learned grammar rules.
Do you sample the production rules uniformly randomly during testing?
If yes, do you plan to learn a policy for generating molecules?
How to jointly learn the generation policy together with the rule search policy?
The space of grammar rules is combinatorial as mentioned in section 4.2.
How does RL circumvent that and learn a reasonable policy?
Why do you only use diversity and RS as the optimization objectives, as mentioned in Appendix A?
Molecular hypergraph grammar with its application to molecular optimization.
In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp.
Overall, this paper makes decent contributions in both technical and empirical aspects, and therefore I recommend accepting the paper provided that the authors correct the writing issues.
The paper is overall well-written and somehow easy to follow (see minor comments).
I checked most of the math in the Appendix and it seems correct, but standard.
The authors could emphasize more on the key differences between their analysis and the previous literature.
Main questions: - I understand the use of the standard greedy algorithm for the selection of clients in DivFL, however, the role of submodularity doesn’t seem to give an advantage, at least theoretically speaking.
In other words, which role does submodularity play in the analysis of the algorithm?
Is there any connection between Assumption 1 and submodularity?
- Assumption 1 seems rather strong.
The authors should motivate more this.
For example, which classes of functions satisfy this?
How large is $\epsilon$ in that case or in the worst-case?
- The authors focus on the full communication case, can this approach be adapted to the partial case?
- Experiments: the authors should discuss Assumption 1 for the objectives used in this section, at least to have a sense of how large is $\epsilon$ for these applications.
Also, it would be great to have an idea of the of time that each method spends.
Minor comments: - Assumption 4 and 5 are for all t?
- Page 5: in the definition of $\overline{v}_t$, it is $v^k_t$.
- The Setup paragraph in Page 5 is a bit confusing, it would be great if the authors could explain more the role of $\overline{v}$ and $\overline{w}$, in particular, why they are needed for the analysis in Theorem 1.
- Appendix: $g_t$ and $\Delta v^k_t$ are not defined.
The paper is interesting and well-written.
The convergence analysis seems to be correct.
However, the theoretical role of submodularity is not quite clear, besides the use of the greedy algorithm for the selection of clients.
Assumption 1 seems quite strong, the authors should motivate this part more in detail.
The experiments clearly show the advantage of DivFL over previous approaches in the literature.
### Strengths - Overall, the paper is very well written.
The proposed work is well-motivated, as developing better client sampling techniques is one important direction in FL.
- Proposed approach is technically solid and seems novel enough.
Although formulating client selection in FL by a combinatorial optimization problem is not completely new (e.g., Nishio and Yonetani 2019), the objective of approximating the aggregation of gradients of all clients by that from a client subset is novel, as far as I can check.
I think that this is a reasonable objective for both data iid and non-iid settings and indeed worked well as shown in the experiments.
- With some reasonable assumptions, the convergence analysis for the proposed approach is provided.
### Weaknesses Although the proposed approach is technically sound, requiring the local gradients of all clients becomes a critical limitation to adopt the approach to practical problems, as also pointed out in the manuscript.
Utilizing updates collected in previous rounds would be one possible approach, but it was not fully evaluated in the experiments in my opinion.
Specifically, using previous gradients will inevitably come with a stale gradient problem (as also noted in the paper).
If I understand it correctly, this problem was mitigated in the experiments by limiting the number of local updates to be one for each client so as not to make model weights change dramatically over rounds.
However, this is against a previous finding of federated learning where asking each client to update models multiple times leads to efficient training, as confirmed in FedAvg (McMahan et al, 2017).
Even though limiting the number of local epochs could result in no significant loss when using previous gradients, does it make the overall learning procedure inefficient compared to when clients perform multiple local updates before aggregation?
This is not obvious in the current manuscript.
To address this concern, I'd like to see how training curves and final performances change depending on the number of local updates (\tau parameter in the experiment).
### Minor comments - The text size of the plot labels and ticks should be a bit larger.
- The left margin of Algorithm 1 needs to be a bit larger.
Overall, I think this is a nice paper that addresses an important aspect of federated learning: improving a client sampling strategy.
Experimental results are promising, though I would like to see how not limiting the number of local updates will affect the performances.
If this brings a considerable gap between DivFL (ideal) and DivFL (no overhead), that implies the limitation of the proposed approach for practical settings.
Subdmoularity-based subset selection is widely used in many contexts, but as far as I can tell, it's the first time in federated learning.
Use of gradients in this context is not novel.
Theoretical and empirical results are significant.
The paper proposes a new approach for diverse sampling of clients in each update round of federated learning.
This significantly improves convergence rate and model accuracy.
Though the idea is not particularly novel in the broader context, it does advance state of the art in federated learning.
page 4: Minimizing G(S) is certainly equivalent to maximizing \bar{G}.
However, the equivalence breaks down when you consider approximation.
In particular, the (1-1/e) approximation to \bar{G} does not imply a similar approximation to G(S), in general End of section 3: the greedy step is not clearly explained and needs more discussion, since it will affect the communication complexity.
It is mentioned that the algorithm only utilizes "updates from the clients that participated in the previous round", and it is claimed that this works quite well.
This is pretty surprising.
Is there some special structure in the instance due to which this holds?
Assumption 1: this is a property of the algorithm.
So I don't understand why this is an assumption.
You need to prove that for the sets S_t chosen in each step t, this property will hold.
The authors claim that this assumption is also made in (Mirzasoleiman et al., 2020).
They should say more clearly where that is (though an assumption in a prior paper doesn't automatically make it correct).
In view of the issue with assumption 1, it is not clear if Theorem 1 is correct The formulation in the paper has a lot of similarity with the setup in (Mirzasoleiman et al., 2020).
The authors should explain this more carefully, instead of cursorily stating it in the Introduction
The problem considered in the paper is interesting and well motivated.
However, the formulation is incremental, and builds quite heavily on earlier paper.
The main contribution is the analysis of the greedy algorithm, which has serious issues as mentioned above.
Strength: The proposed architectures have been shown to work for "zero-shot learning," or recombination without re-learning.
Weakness: It is not convincing whether the particular resetting mechanism is the most reasonable one, either computationally or biologically.
Computationally, any strong inhibitory input to bring the network state to the origin should suffice.
Biologically, the most likely mechanism is the tonic inhibition and timely disinhibition by the basal ganglia to the thalamus and subcortical motor controllers like the superior colliculus.
An interesting proposal worth discussion.
The authors discuss two important alternatives to the approach that they ultimate pursue, which would involve attacking the problem with learning rather than with building in inductive biases.
Rather than running experiments to test the efficacy of these alternatives, the authors instead tried to argue away these points (bottom of pg.
This is extremely unsatisfying.
Learning has proven remarkably powerful, and incorporating constraints/structure/inductive biases, may indeed be necessary in some domains to overcome current challenges, as the work the authors cite suggests.
But those domains are ones in which learning has been doggedly pursued for an extended period of time.
These authors instead introduce a novel synthetic task and immediately jump to the need to incorporate more structure, without doing the legwork necessary to convincingly demonstrate that such structure is indeed necessary.
To directly respond to the authors arguments over why these alternatives are insufficient: First, they suggest that directly training the RNNs to generalize from end states is insufficient, because they can't train from all possible end states, particularly as the number of trained states scales.
This argument is unpersuasive, as training on all of anything is often impossible in general, yet still learned systems generalize.
E.g., work with ImageNet over the last decade provides a great example of this.
The authors could instead test this possibility by incorporating the end points into training as initial states for subsequent trajectories.
They could hold out some transitions and test how well the system generates the motifs on these left-out transitions.
They could hold out the transitions in two ways: Either exclude some transitions randomly (i.e., salt and pepper of the transition matrix) or hold out some motifs from the training at all (i.e., holding out rows or columns of the motifs).
The latter would be a stronger test, but both would be important to see.
Critically, for the authors to convincingly show that learning was insufficient, they would need far, far more than 10 motifs (e.g., like >>1000, most likely).
Second, the authors could train to return to a consistent point at the end of each motif.
The authors assert that doing so would make the system not robust to perturbation/noise, but that would be true only if the system actually learned to arrive at an identical point each time, which I imagine would not occur (and if they did, they could add noise to the network during training).
The network could return to the origin imperfectly and convey state information (e.g., on 299 dimensions return to origin, but on one axis keep information about).
Who knows if these speculations are correct -- but an experimental test of these ideas would be quite useful.
My second major concern is the relevance of this work to the broader field.
The networks are small and seemingly toy: 300 units, 10 motifs.
This is smaller than MNIST.
Minor issues: - The authors assert that thalamic activity may change the effective connectivity of motor cortical activity, but they don't make clear why that change would result in a bias towards the origin.
In what sense is biasing the network to the origin motivated by neuroscience?
Also, how is preparatory activity being the same across all motifs brain-like?
Isn't that not seen in the brain (e.g., in Susillo et al.
- The authors seem to repeatedly suggest that matching the marginals of a distribution is a strong approximation to the joint -- e.g., "Subtle variations in the state of the network at the end of different first motifs x_{end}^{\mu} can lead to very different outcomes".
I don't understand why the authors are overstating the extent to which the marginals and the joint are the same thing...
- The authors assert that "a standard normal is a good choice" for the marginals of the states.
Please provide some quantification for this claim.
As it stands, the authors visualize cumulative distributions of a subset of the states rather than performing statistics.
- How did the authors pick a standard deviation of 1.2 (in Fig 2.a.iv-v)?
Did they fit this number to the marginals?
- Typo, top of page 5: "require less neurons" --> "require fewer neurons"
The small scale of the models/data combined with the lack of evaluation of alternative approaches diminishes the potential contribution of this work.
Pros - The modification that's required to the "control" network in order is extremely simple, and has a clear theoretical goal of decreasing "residual" activity between motif transitions, without quenching activity in response to the new control signal.
- The level of experimental detail is sufficient such that the experiments in the main text can be replicated by an independent reader.
Cons - The methods in the main text are clear, and lead to convincing results in the main-section.
However, without digging much deeper into appendix 4 & 5, there's no clear reason why the learned preparatory modules are able function
The preparatory module appears to function well, and the quenching activity is reasonable well tied to biological thalamocortical loop actions.
To my knowledge, the motif-transition problem is not solved in switching recurrent networks, however I am not overly familiar with that literature.
Overall, my low confidence ratings come from not knowing how interesting or novel the analytical work in the appendices is.
Overall, the formulation of the problem and various design choices (global positional encoding, focus map, pointer head for the grounding task) make sense.
The authors also seem to have carefully designed their experiments.
For instance, ensuring that comparisons are fair (same number of parameters, etc) for the object detection task.
Given the nature of the problem statement (with multiple tasks, inputs and outputs), the authors have done a good job in explaining each of them properly.
Overall, I thought the paper was easy to read and understand.
The authors provide several reasonable insights that might be relevant to the user interface modeling community — using object detection as part of multi-task learning instead of standalone pre-training task, design choices to create a single unified architecture for all the tasks, multi-task learning outperforming single-task learning etc.
I understand that a single model is helpful for multiple UI tasks, but I wonder if this approach is scalable beyond the 5 tasks and 5 modalities mentioned.
The authors comment that the model architecture is designed to remain stable for a growing set of tasks, but this seems to be under the assumption that the input and output modalities would remain constant.
A discussion on how to add new tasks to the same framework might help, or a discussion on why the current framework is enough.
One of the important motivations of multi-modal multi-task learning mentioned was to achieve better or on-par performance with a single model (and supposedly fewer computations) which is crucial for devices with limited computing resources.
But a direct head to head comparison for the computational cost of a multi-task model and individual models is not provided.
Are there any overheads/disadvantages because of multi-task learning (Like a larger model size, inference time for individual tasks etc)?
The model sizes are varied across experiments to achieve on par performance which makes the comparison of the computational cost not so obvious.
Such a comparison would highlight the advantages of the multi-task model and would be helpful for the relevant audience.
I also believe that the downstream tasks are also somewhat similar (language command grounding, tappability, UI object detection, UI summarization, widget captioning).
It is therefore not surprising that multi-task learning should help these tasks.
There is no comparison provided with any baseline for 2/5 tasks (Language grounding, Tappability) 5.
The novelty in the paper is somewhat lacking.
The techniques used in the paper (multi-branch transformer, pointing mechanism, cross-modal attention, global positional encodings, etc) have been shown to work in the past for image-text tasks [1, 2].
The paper is taking all the lessons from past works and applying it to a new domain.
The training procedure mentioned in section 5.2.2 talks about joint training but the procedure followed for training for individual tasks or a subset of tasks is not described in detail.
Were the same hyperparameters used for all configurations?
**Updates after rebuttal period** The authors addressed some of the concerns -- showing inference time, model size and a discussion about training details and hyperparameters in the appendix.
However, I am not convinced that the paper presents new insights that are relevant for the broader ICLR community.
Concerns around novelty and the multi-task setup was also raised by another reviewer (e7Hg).
Responses to reviewer e7Hg also aren't convincing.
If the tasks are not similar, and the learning objectives are not aligned, then the motivation for multi-task learning is solely for reducing memory footprint and computational cost.
I believe that this contribution isn't enough for me to recommend acceptance.
Thus, I am going to stick to my original rating.
Rohrbach, *Iterative Answer Prediction with Pointer-Augmented Multimodal Transformers for TextVQA*.
Lee, 12-in-1: Multi-Task Vision and Language Representation Learning.
Overall, the paper showed how multi-task learning can improve performance on several downstream UI modeling tasks.
These insights might be relevant to the UI modeling community.
The authors use several popular ideas in the field of multi-modal, multi-task learning and showed it's effectiveness on multiple downstream tasks.
The paper is well written, and the ideas are clearly presented but it lacks in technical novelty.
Additionally, the paper lacks in a few other areas -- comparison to single-task models with respect to computational cost, inference time etc, the downstream tasks are similar but the performance gains aren't significant.
Due to these reasons, I think the paper is marginally below the acceptance threshold.
Strengths + Formulated a multi-modal multi-task learning for graphical user interfaces + A new two-tower Transformer architecture is designed Weakness - By jointly trained on 5 tasks, the model is on par or slight improves over models trained on individual data sets.
This does not match the observation on other image-language data joint training where significant improvement is achieved.
- The 5 tasks are closely related, and it is hard to see how the model can generalize to a different task, such as generating/editing new UI layout - The main architecture of the model is new, while all the building blocks are not.
The technical contribution is somewhat lacking.
The paper demonstrated an interesting problem addressed by a standard transformer based model.
The potential of generalization to more tasks is not clear, and the improvement over single task models falls below expectation.
In summary, their main works can be summarized as followed: (1) The authors formulate multi-modal multi-task learning for graphical user interfaces and design a VUT model.
(2) The authors create a so-called Language Grounding dataset for language grounding task.
This topic is interesting and it is pioneer to incorporate muti-task learning in graphical user interfaces.
The manuscript is easy to follow.
And the technical contribution is significant.
The experimental results conducted on 5 distinct UI tasks demonstrate its superior performance over some state-of-the-art methods.
The reviewer suggests borderline.
The weakness of this paper is as follows.
(1) Tables 5,6,7 and 8 compare the multi-task learning with the single task counterpart.
However, their results show that the multi-task learning cannot significantly facilitate the studied tasks.
For example, in the Table 5, the setting of “Screen Summarization alone” performs better than the setting “all 5 tasks”.
This is contrary to the original intention of this paper.
More explanations should be given.
(2) There are some typos in this manuscript, e.g., “We experiment with VUT on 5 distinct UI task”.
I am a researcher interested in UI and published many paper of UI on top conferences.
It provides a deeper insights into the heterophily problem and help us understand the GCNs’ performance.
It also designs a new cross-class neighborhood similarity metric to help explain the performance of GCN on various graphs (although it is not perfect).
The writing is generally clear.
Weakness and Questions: 1.
The analysis is only limited to GCNs, while the paper title is too general (GNNs).
One concern is that the performance of GCN on Chameleon and Squirrel (Table1) differs a lot from the one reported in other papers (e.g.
It seems the settings are the same as Pei et al.
2020, why is the result on these two datasets so different (2 to 3 times different)?
Generally, I do not think the hyperprameter tunning should impact so much.
Could the authors explain more details about it?
In fact I also run some experiments on those datasets before and I cannot get those high numbers either.
The cross-class neighborhood similarity metric is intuitive and a good idea.
However, it lacks of a direct theoretic connection to GCNs’ performance.
Same as the heterophily metric, I do not think it can completely decide the GCNs’ performance, because the node feature distribution is also important here.
In fact, the assumptions in Theorem 1 are quite strong.
If the nodes with the same label are sampled from the same feature distribution, it means generally MLP can also have a good performance.
When this assumption does not meet, the analysis will become very complex.
That is why I think Figure5 may be not enough to explain everything (but it is still interesting to see this empirical result).
Although Theorem 1 seems correct to me, I have a question here.
Assume we have a separate node with 0 neighbors, that means the upper bound here is 0.
It is obviously not true.
So, how to explain this exception?
The paper provides a new perspective of heterophily and GCNs, but there remains some concerns both in the theoretic part and in the experiments.
This work proposes a novel perspective on learning node representations under various homophily.
Considering how recent GNN papers on heterophily treat GCNs (as the weakest baseline), we can say that empirical results by this paper are groundbreaking.
However, this paper has several flaws which should be fixed/justified before publication.
First, the Table 1 results are not convincing.
We now agree that GCNs can learn good representations under some conditions on neighbor label distributions.
However, this cannot justify how GCNs outperform other models.
Does it not hold for other specialized architectures (H2GCN, CPGNN, GRRGNN)?
Or, how about simple other baselines such as GraphSAGE and GAT?
Related to the first point, is there any reason for GCNs’ supremacy other than hyperparameter tuning?
I have read Appendix D.4, and it is a standard procedure with reasonable computational budgets.
Does it mean that other related works were doing something wrong?
Second, the edge addition algorithm does not control the degree distribution; it monotonically increases the degree of nodes.
In Theorem 1, the probability is bounded with singular value, feature dimension, and degree.
However, the edge addition algorithm adds edges, and the average degree always increases; thus, whole experiments in Figure 3 do not control the key variate.
Does it contribute to getting over-optimistic results for a high degree (or low homophily) regime?
Third, the two-class graph results seem to be insufficient for the main claim.
Theorem 2 is about the relation between decision boundary and degree, $p$, and $q$, and this is just one example of a graph with distinguishable neighbor label patterns.
Can we say that Theorem 2 *theoretically supports* the paper’s argument?
This can work just because predicting one can be reducible to predicting the other in a two-class problem, might not because of the distinguishability.
Fourth, the degree distribution $\mathcal{D}_c$ for edge addition is clearly distinguishable to each other, but only one specific instance has been experimented with (i.e., having neighbors of two other classes other than itself).
Is there any specific reason to experiment with one pattern across all datasets?
Can we confirm that these empirical results generalize to various neighbor label distributions?
For extreme cases, how does the model perform if the node connects to a single different label, or all labels except for itself (with the different number of classes)?
The authors discuss the interesting question (in the title) and their answers in theoretical and empirical ways.
The paper has merits but also has the following weaknesses: - Table 1 and the following description cannot justify how GCNs outperform other models.
- The edge addition algorithm does not control the degrees, which is the core control variate for the experiments.
- The two-class graph results seem to be insufficient for the main claim.
- Only one specific instance of the degree distribution $\mathcal{D}_c$ for edge addition is used for the experiments.
Thank you for the clarification; I had thought that the taxi example was three dimensional (x-axis, y-axis, day of the week), but I had overlooked the fact that the intensity function is inhomogeneous.
Now my understanding is that the dimension in the taxi example is 4, but D = 3.
It would be helpful to clarify more explicitly that D and the dimension are different.
The method is stated for general D, but only evaluated for D <= 4.
This is fine, but it would be helpful to tell the reader early that the intent is to use it on small D and therefore focus the evaluation on this regime.
In some sense you already do this with the running example, but being more explicit would help.
Otherwise, if the writing is for general D, then the evaluation should reflect this.
To clarify: my suggestion of “direct comparison” of \lambda with the estimators meant comparing them as functions, using some function norm.
Figure 2 (a): To clarify, I don’t understand the explanatory purpose of writing \eta = \hat{\eta}.
The proposed methodology is interesting, but the empirical evaluation is a weakness in my opinion.
First, empirical execution times are missing.
Second, it seems that an important comparison was not included; reviewer cFZz raised the point that the approach should be compared with the GAM + tensor product bases.
"We disagree with this comment.
Our proposed approach has advantages over some of the existing approaches as it provides a convenient graph structure in the form of a partial order to systematically allow the interactions between the features and time to be represented.
Such modeling is not possible in existing approaches.
The decomposition into lower dimensional space is meaningful as it represents a poisson process for each of the features in the interaction effects between features." Response: I am not saying decomposition into lower dimensional space is not meaningful.
I was saying that this can be done using existing tools such as tensor product bases.
"Our comparison with RKHS is still meaningful as it is a well-established baseline known by many people in the ICLR community." Response: anything you can do with RKHS, you can also do it with tensor product bases, which is very close to RKHS.
The problem of selecting the M and h is not addressed.
The synthetic experiments should adopt the same strategy as those will be used in real applications for an honest assessment of the proposed approach.
"You are correct that the day of the week is a discrete variable.
But, a continuous-time component t is associated with each (x, y, W) as we have introduced in the Introduction.
If there is no problem with equation (6), where is the summation index $i$ reflected in the summands?
I found the main idea of the paper novel and interesting.
I believe the paper is well written and easy to read even for someone not familiar with information geometry.
I particularly appreciated the theoretical guarantees that come with this model and inference scheme.
The experimental section is extensive but could be improved (see comments below).
Addressing the following comments could help clarify the benefits and contributions of the proposed approach: 1) It seems to me that the point of this paper is not to model multiple correlated poisson processes but rather to learn the intensity of a single poisson process by “decomposing” it into sub processes over lower dimensional input spaces.
Can you confirm this is correct?
2) The authors speak about general high dimensional input spaces in the introduction also making the example of space-time locations.
However, the input definition is not clear in Section 2.
From Section 2, the authors speak only about timestamps where each time step seems to have a D dimensionality.
It would be useful to repeat your initial example when you define $\mathbf{t}_1, ….
\mathbf{t}_N$ to give examples of what these time stamps are.
Ultimately it seems to me that you could just call $\mathbf{x}_i = [x_i^1, …., x_i^{D-1}, t_i ] $ the input vector in a D dimensional space which also includes the time stamp.
In terms of computational complexity, what is generally the cardinality of $\mathcal{S}$?
Is this not given by the number of terms considered in Eq (6)?
In other words the number of lower dimensional projections in Eq 4?
If this is the case it does not seem the computational complexity is significantly lower compared to the methods mentioned in Section A.1 in the appendix.
4) I believe the authors should comment an important approximation introduced when discretising the input space thus getting rid of the intractable integral in the likelihood?
There are indeed approaches in the literature that avoid that and despite resorting to variational inference (thus no guarantees) are scalable and seem to be working fine in experimental settings (see [1] and [2] below).
It seems like there is a typo in the captions.
For the sparse case N should be 1000?
Also it does not seem like the observations are sparse in the two left plots of the second row.
6) Experimental comparison.
In addition there exist out of the box tools that can be used to train such models making it a fast default choice.
They would probably fail in sparse settings but I think the paper would significantly benefit from that comparison.
**Minor comments** 1) Just above Eq (6) I believe the authors refer to Eq (3) and not Eq (1) 2) The figures are very scatters in the paper and I would prefer to have them reorganised in order to have them closer to the point where they are discussed in the text.
In addition it would be useful to see Fig 4 together with fig 3 and fig 5 together with fig 6 as they refer to the same experiment.
[1] Aglietti, Virginia, et al.
"Structured variational inference in continuous cox process models." arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.03161 (2019).
"Latent point process allocation." Artificial Intelligence and Statistics.
I believe the paper is well written and I particularly appreciated the theoretical guarantees that come with this model and inference scheme.
However there are some parts of the paper that are confusing, even in the basic formulation section.
Therefore, I believe the paper is borderline and could be significantly improved by clarifying the points above.
This approach is interesting but it would deserve more works to further develop the idea.
The paper is not motivated and clear enough which leaves the reader perplexed.
Here are some remarks: - Several statements in the paper are not well-justified by references, e.g.
on KDE in the introduction.
- More details should be added on how GAM approximates the Kolmogorov-Arnold representation and how well it performs.
For example, 'based on the K-A representation theorem, GAM are able to learn the intensity of the higher-order interaction between Poisson processes' It would be nice to add references and examples since it is the key of the paper.
- Motivations for introducing APP are not well explained.
Background on Poisson Processes are not clear enough and do not give any insight about PP.
- The presentation of APP, in Section 2.2, should be clarified.
It is not clear how to match the log-linear model (8) and the intensity defined in Sections 2 and 2.1, e.g.
the taxi toy example at the top of page 5 makes things even more confusing.
- I would like to see experiments on the computation time of the approach compared to existing methods as it could be an advantage of this approach.
Minor comments: - The notation \mathbf{t}_i in Section 2 is very confusing.
- Figure 2 is cited in the text before Figure 1.
- Section 2.2 The symbol $\bot$ should be defined before, or just after, using it.
Furthermore, $\bot$ denotes the least element in the partial order structure but is used before 'partial order' definition.
Also, I think $J$ belongs to $ 2^{|[D]|}$.
- Equation (5) is weird since you basically inverse log-function on equation (4) but the index $k$ disappears and appears again in (6).
- Figures are too small, it is difficult to see anything.
- "to arrive at": "to converge to"
The paper is not motivated and clear enough.
Furthermore, the proposed approach is empirically poorly studied while no theoretical guarantees are investigated.
Several claims are not supported by references or proof.
I would like to thank the authors for their replies.
However, I found my concerns only partially addressed.
My main concern is about the claim on 'low data' regime.
I have no doubt that the proposed method is better than the baselines in the absolute sense, across different data percentage.
It would make more sense if the authors simply claim that using a generative model is just better than baseline, regardless of data abundance.
Since this 'low data' regime is a major narrative, I'm not sure if the experiments supports that claim.
Though it is perfectly fine for the authors to change the narrative and suit that to the experiments, I don't think this indicates that the paper is ready enough for publication.
> Second, for the performance gap between MGM/G and MGM, we think it is because MGM/G is already a strong model with the refinement network and the self-supervision network -- it is relatively hard for MGM to further improve the performance with a stronger model.
I find this argument way too weak to prove the design choice of this generative model.
Given the qualitative results shown, I don't think the few points in the result is significant enough to prove that the generative model is essential.
I found fig 6 still have border artifacts, and with rgb images as background overlay.
I don't think the authors addressed this issue properly 4.
I don't find the necessity of keeping a consistent metrics with taskonomy given the specific task of depth/normal/semantic prediction.
Taskonomy has various tasks, but since major evaluation is done on those three specific tasks, it makes more sense to report consistent metrics on theses tasks.
Given those considerations, I vote for rejection for this paper.
The proposed framework that combines multi-task learning and generative modeling is interesting and inspiring.
I also appreciate the extensive experiments (ablation studies and extensions) conducted by the authors.
However, I am not entirely convinced by the pilot study.
The experiment is carried out on a single task, and the proposed framework is suitable for multi-task.
The discovery of single-task scenarios may not be applicable to multi-task scenarios.
A more convincing comparison is to show that "using images synthesized by an off-the-shelf generative model may hurt the performance on multi-task learning".
In addition, I think using Taskonomy's output as the ground truth to train with the synthesized image is not good enough.
Although Taskonomy is the state-of-the-art method, its qualitative performance is still far from being regarded as a good ground truth.
It is better to visualize the sample ground truth (Taskonomy's output) in the supplement to prove that the output of using Taskonomy is sufficient for training.
In general, I think the pilot study is still very different from the proposed framework: it is conducted on a single task, there is no self-supervision/contrastive learning, it does not use weak labels, but uses the output of Taskonomy as the ground truth.
I think the pilot study alone is not enough to support the claim.
I also don't fully believe in the benefits of introducing generative models in joint training.
The role of generative models is like providing additional data augmentations.
The advantage of training the generative model with the multi-task model is that it can better learn the synthetic images guided by the multi-task outputs and the downstream tasks.
I think a stronger baseline is to train a separate generative model for each task on the same dataset for each experiment, and then fix the generative model weights, train a multi-task learning network with the generated model guided by the downstream tasks.
Again, since I believe that the pilot study is not enough to be such a baseline, further comparisons are needed.
Although I think the whole idea is interesting and worthy of discussion in the research community, I still don’t fully believe most of the claims: e.g.
the pilot study that tries to support the claim "directly using images synthesized by an off-the-shelf generative model (self-attention GAN) may hurt the performance on the downstream task" and the performance differences between using generative models and a more complex data augmentation technique.
Therefore, at this stage, I will vote for borderline reject.
I will re-evaluate the score based on the authors' response.
Pros) The idea on introducing an image generation network, G, into multi-task learning on pixel-wise estimation tasks seems novel.
To use scene-class-conditionally synthesized images without GT annotations of the target multi-tasks, the authors introduced a refinement network which classifies a scene class.
The scene class was known for a synthesized image, since it was generated with a class condition, which enabled training of the multi-task network,M, with generated images.
In addition, EM-style training was proposed to train the network effectively.
Its effectiveness was successfully proved by the experiments.
This is the biggest contribution of this paper.
Although adding a self-supervision network is not so novel, its effectiveness was shown by the experiments.
The paper is well written, and the experiments including ones in the supplementary material are comprehensive and detailed.
The pilot study is helpful to understand that naive usage of GAN for this task is not effective at all.
Cons) The proposed method needs to scene labels for all the training images.
That's why MGM cannot be applied to the CityScape dataset which consists of only street scene.
This property narrows applicability of the proposed method.
Additional Comments) To deal with CityScape, it will be needed to introduce a multi-label classifier into the refinement network, and use a multi-label-conditional GAN (probably using multiple-hot instead of one-hot vector).
Does the authors think if this works ?
In Semi Supervised Semantic Segmentation Using Generative Adversarial Network,ICCV2017, multi-label was used.
MGM does not seem to be limited to multiple tasks.
It can be applied to a single task such as only semantic segmentation.
Did the authors try that ?
Showing the synthesized images on the supplementary material will be helpful for the readers.
This paper has novelty which is introducing a generative model into multitask network, and the effectiveness was successfully supported by the comprehensive experiments.
The reviewer think this paper can be accepted.
I thank the authors for additional clarifications.
I also checked the other reviews and responses.
I'm generally satisfied with the additional experiments conducted by the authors.
The experimental setup and a large number of experiments are big strengths of the paper and the authors' rebuttal only improves in this area.
However, the discussion does not change my opinion on the limited novelty of this work and the weak and unoriginal theoretical justification for the idea.
If that it would be possible, at this point, I would give this paper a 7, but right now, I'm keeping my score as it is.
Additional comments: The $\tau$ parameters seem to have a significant impact on model performance.
I believe it should be already discussed and motivated in Section 3 of the paper.
NIT: I found a broken reference in the appendix in the added section about the impact of $\lambda$: > Effect of varying λ: The hyperparameter λ controls the importance between the two loss terms.
Table 16 shows the effect of varying λ, and Figures ??
show their corresponding decile-wise plots
Thanks to the authors for the response.
While this does help somewhat in improving my score, there are still some concerns/clarifications required : 1.
Variance issues : In my opinion, both the earlier work [1] and this one focus on different aspects of the same issue i.e.
data scarcity leading to shift in the observed empirical distribution between different sub-samples.
In [1] the change in the empirical distribution (between train and test) of the inputs x_i for a given label, and in this case, possible change in the observed label y_i for an instance x_i over time or different annotators.
In the second scenario, however, it seems like a missing label problem, even though the authors mention that this does not include any systematic bias, and hence they claim that it is not a missing labels problem, to which I am not sure if I entirely agree.
Despite that PSP metrics are used for evaluation, which were designed for missing label problem in the first place, and the usage for measuring the tail-label performance as a metric is rather secondary (as per Schultheis et al 2022).
Apparently, we seem to be going in circles, and this requires some clarification/discussion in the paper.
The overlap with Menon et al.
2021 remains a concern, and the paper in its current form lacks theoretical soundness in comparison to that paper.
On the positive side, it has strong empirical performance and addresses a key problem in XMLC literature.
First of all, thank you for your concise response and the structure that makes it easy to follow each point.
I will comment on a few specific points below, but overall my concerns have been addressed.
I will update my rating accordingly.
>>_Some of the examples of types of errors shown in Table 1 seem to be of questionable quality…_ > >This is a valid concern, and we appreciate the reviewer for pointing it out.
We acknowledge that sometimes annotators or GPT-4 may ask questions that are also unanswered in the book, and there is no way to confirm without reading the source text.
Using the reviewer’s example, if the identity of the mysterious man is not revealed in the book, the summary could say something like “A mysterious man whose identity is never revealed.” Since our focus is on coherence, the nature of our evaluation protocol is to have readers naturally raise questions as they read through a summary.
Checking whether a question can be answered by the source text and finding answers to these questions would fall under faithfulness evaluation, which we leave to future work.
Thanks for your clarification.
I also read your response to reviewer `SAFf`'s question about faithfulness, including the unreasonable effort to collect such labels.
>> _This may be a side effect of offering a monetary reward based in part on the number of annotations (cf.
Appendix G)._ > >We appreciate the reviewer for going through the appendix.
For the first evaluation task where we collected span-question pairs, we actually paid $15 USD per summary regardless of how many annotations were provided as mentioned in Section 3.
>Appendix G (now J) is for the second human evaluation where we validated annotations collected from the first one.
For this evaluation, we paid based on how many annotations from the first task an annotator had to annotate, which also did not incentivize them in any way.
The annotators were informed of the second evaluation task a few weeks after they completed the first one, so payment for the second task could not have biased annotators to create more annotations for the first.
We understand that this may be unclear, and have made clarifications in Appendix J.
Thank you for your explanation, which clears up my doubts.
I think your additions to the paper are helpful to the reader.
>>_Furthermore, the evaluation of different models does not further investigate whether some of the score differences can be explained by the different length of the summaries._ > >This is a valid concern.
We have added a plot of BOOOOKSCORE vs.
summary length in Appendix F, which shows no correlation between the two.
Thank you for the clarification with additional results.
They dispel my doubts on this point.
For the sake of completeness, I would be interested in an analogous plot for hierarchical summaries, e.g.
as differently colored dots in the same image, or a separate plot next to it, although I assume they paint a similar picture.
>> _Table 2: Why is there no entry for LLaMA2 in the incremental update section?_ > > This is explained in Section 5, we could not get LLaMA 2 to perform incremental updating.
Thank you for the reminder.
It looks like I didn't remember that part correctly.
I believe there are no ethical concerns in this paper.
The link to the code and the dataset benchmark of this submission is **not anonymized**.
Post-rebuttal: this concern is addressed.
Thank the authors for the clarification and additional experiments.
Below are some suggestions that may improve the presentation of the work based on the discussion above: 1.
The authors could highlight the method is able to process unseen domains and add the details of the graph to the main text.
The comparison of the proposed work and existing meta-learning works, including the non-MAML-based works, could be discussed in the related works.
I appreciate the effort of adding experiments in such limited discussion time, although I still encourage the authors to make more effort on the non-MAML-based works, including the reasons of their inability to adapt to unseen domains and whether the proposed models can be applied to these frameworks.
I modified my evaluation accordingly.
Thanks to the authors for the careful response.
The explanations and additional results definitely helped to better contextualize this work.
I can understand the challenge of working on a trending topic with new results coming out all the time.
From the author's explanation, the performance achieved by this work is at the frontier.
The part of my review remains that I do not see a clear technical contribution offered by this work, at least not a principled framework.
I am not very familiar with the state-of-the-art performance for instruction tuning so I will have to leave the evaluation of this part to other reviewers and the AC.
Thus, I am not passionately against the publication of the work or passionately supporting it.
I would raise my score to 5 while decreasing my confidence to 2.
I thank the authors for their detailed response.
While I carefully read the updated paper and rebuttal, I want to clarify the following aspects: **Re: falsifiable hypothesis**: Note that a falsifiable hypothesis does not require specifying the precise conditions under which the illusion occurs.
In this case, a hypothesis can also be stated as "there exist pre-trained ML models such that the following property holds with their activations: ...".
I believe that presenting a falsifiable hypothesis falls well within the scope of this work and, in general, any scientific work.
The key idea is to present a concrete test to validate the hypothesis (i.e., the provided explanation) BEFORE looking at the experimental evidence.
**Re: definition of dormant directions**: The paper defines a dormant direction as "We say U is dormant if $M_{U_c ←u_y} (x) ≈ M(x)$ with high probability over x, y ∼ D, but not over any x, y".
This definition critically relies upon having access to in-distribution and out-of-distribution inputs "x".
Yet the rebuttal states that "While the reviewer’s concern would be true in the case of full component activation patching, it is possible for subspace activation patching between in-distribution data to result in out-of-distribution activations when the subspace is a proper subspace of activation space".
(1) This is a contradiction: does the definition apply to inputs or patched activations, or likely, both?
(If so, please clarify in the main text) (2) The presented arguments are circular.
The authors state that patching creates OOD activations, yet the definition is about model output invariance in the presence of patching.
(3) Why doesn't full activation patching, similar to subspace patching, also result in OOD activations?
Both these techniques create "synthetic" activations, and thus, there is a high chance of both being OOD.
Your response is helpful for thinking about experimentally testing for the validity of your theory.
You describe a test > A key experiment to check for the illusion is to patch only [a]long $v_{rowspace}$ and compare the effect to patching along $v$.
Which I agree would be practical, and could be used to quantify the prevalence of the effect in various networks.
Do you think this experiment could be operationalized into a method for detecting interpretability illusions?
I thank the authors for the thorough reply.
I appreciate the effort of the authors to provide code and strongly encourage them to do so.
I would also encourage the authors to include Fig.
1 in the main text but understand that page limit may be hindering in doing so.
Lastly, I appreciate the discussion on subspace vs.
entire activation space patching that could be also featured in the paper.
Overall, I believe that this paper constitutes a very important contribution to the interpretability community and consequently should be highlighted as such at the conference.
I understand the concern of authors that different models are trained on different datasets, and they should share different step sizes.
However, it is crucial that the overarching objective of this method extends to large diffusion models, such as the recently proposed InstaFlow.
I acknowledge the inherent difficulty in evaluating the performance of such expansive matching flow models during the rebuttal phase.
Consequently, I suggest that the authors delve deeper into discussions and analyses pertaining to the generalization of their method.
On the whole, the authors have effectively addressed all my concerns.
The only notable observation is that this paper has undergone a substantial revision compared to its initial submission, encompassing essential experiments and discussions.
If the AC deems this extensive alteration acceptable, I would be inclined to revise my score to borderline acceptance.
Some of my questions are addressed, e.g., the comparison with DFA and the magnitude of $Fe$, and I raise my score to 5.
I have some additional comments.
In PEPITA, there is also a traveling of error from top to input, while DFA propagates errors to each layer.
To what extent the error traveling you think is more acceptable?
From the neuroscience perspective, three-factor learning rules with a top-down signal are valid and have been verified [1].
And considering biological spiking neural networks, errors from DFA can be combined with local eligibility traces [2] (the presynaptic activities and derivatives of the nonlinearity of postsynaptic neurons can be maintained in the trace), not necessarily breaking locality.
On the other hand, a two stage of “clean” and “modulated” passes poses challenges for neural systems to distinguish the stage for update rules, and while PEPITA-TL is considered temporally local, it requires some temporal information to distinguish the stage for Hebbian or anti-Hebbian, so it is still not fully local.
If PEPITA-Hebbian mainly differs from previous Hebbian and anti-Hebbian methods considering the weight transport problem, there seems some previous works also consider this problem with random feedback [3].
[1] Control of synaptic plasticity in deep cortical networks.
Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 2018 [2] A solution to the learning dilemma for recurrent networks of spiking neurons.
Nature Communications, 2020.
[3] Contrastive Hebbian learning with random feedback weights.
I increased the rating to 6 because, during the discussion period, the authors' answers and their revised version mitigated some of my concerns: * The toxicity reduction comparison in Table 5 is limited, omitting works like Liu et al.
2021, despite its relevance mentioned on page 16.
(In the discussion period, the authors pointed out that work of Liu et al.
2021 relies on expensive fine-tuning with training data, which is different from their zero-shot regime.) * The evaluation is restricted to toxicity reduction, whereas other CTG studies often explore sentiment or topic control as well.
It is recommended to broaden the evaluation scope to these areas as well.
(In the discussion period, the revised version added an extra experiment evaluating model arithmetic on sentiment control in Appendix F, showing that their method also outperforms existing work.)
I have read the authors response and agree with most of their points.
The one issue for me in **W1** is to justify why strictly bounded gradients can be an interesting assumption, when compared with just Lipschitz gradients (which is more standard and covers the quadratic case).
The authors addressed this somewhat but I would be keen to hear why this is a limiting assumption in practice.
Nonetheless, I feel like most of my other points have been addressed and I have raised my score correspondingly.
I thank the authors for their prompt and thorough response.
I thank the authors for their detailed explanation of my questions and concerns.
I believe most of my concerns are well-addressed.
For the propagation of chaos results for the MFL-AG algorithm, the interpretation of Theorem 3.7 as the bias of the " propagation of chaos " is valid to me, and I understand the dependence of dimensionality for variance term might be inevitable technically.
However, I'm still a bit concerned about whether the propagation of chaos in $W_1$ is strong enough to interpret the utility of the mean-field minimax problem.
This gave a good interpretation that the output of the finite-width network is close to the optimal infinite-width neural network in expectation as $N$ is large and training sufficiently long.
Thus, in this case, the propagation of chaos results in $W_2$ is good enough.
In mean-field minimax problems, especially in mean-field game settings, it seems to me that people are more interested in interpreting the closeness to MNE by measuring $ NI( \mu\_{\mathscr{ X}\_k }, \nu\_{\mathscr{ X}\_k } ) $ for example.
Since from Theorem 3.7, it is not obvious to see whether it will imply an upper bound on $ NI( \mu\_{\mathscr{ X}\_k }, \nu\_{\mathscr{ X}\_k } ) $, I'm still not convinced whether the propagation of chaos in $W_1^2$ is strong enough.
Nevertheless, now I believe that Theorem 3.7 is indeed a valid propagation of chaos results which is new in the literature and the techniques are novel from the explanations of the authors.
The authors have now added useful results showing that the predictions of the reduced models hold up in the actual (albeit minimal) transformer, supporting the relevance of these models to that case.
The cleaner writing is also an enhancement, as are the new results with in the 0 < pB < 1, 0 < pC < 1 regime, suggested by reviewer ciFG.
Reviewer ciFG questioned 'the connection between pages 1-4 of the paper and the rest', that is, first replicating the phenomenology from Chan et al on the interplay of ICL and IWL, then beaming in of the ICL / induction head by setting pB=0 and pC=1.
I consider this progression a plus.
The fact that the paper's minimal induction head transformer with two attention heads and one FF network replicates the Chan et al findings makes it clear that it can capture the mix of IW and ICL generally present in transformers, making it a useful reduced model to further understand.
Zeroing in to understand more about ICL in an architecture that can capture both is important because IWL is the (or at least one of the) key new emergent properties that transformers provide, enabling few-shot learning, a crucial attribute previous models lacked.
Perhaps an added comment about this in the discussion could address ciFG's concern, and further enhance the appreciation of the importance of the paper.
Thanks for a quick response and for letting me know of the revisions.
Here are additional clarification questions and comments: - Regarding Comment 1: Wouldn't it be more natural to write $V = S_1 \cup \cdots \cup S_m$ with $S_i \cap S_j = \emptyset$ when $i \neq j$, which I believe is indeed the form used in Section 3.2?
- Regarding Comments 2 and 3: I think the description that $Y$ is a *distribution* is misleading.
Clearly, $Y$ itself is not a distribution since it need not be the case that $\sum_{i} Y_i = 1$, and by the definitions given here, $P(S|V)$ and $q(Y|S,V)$ are distributions over different objects.
Rather, shouldn't it be the case that the probabilities of each element being selected in the optimal subset are the outputs from the variational distribution $q$?
In this case, it seems more appropriate to describe it as $q(S|V)$?
Please let me know if I am misunderstanding something here.
Meanwhile, since $Y$ is used throughout the main text, I think it should be very clearly defined as part of the main text before it is used, instead of appearing in a footnote (if appropriate, discussed along with concrete examples that readers can immediately understand).
I thank the authors for the detailed reply and for running the curriculum learning experiment.
Regarding Transformers learning gradient based algorithms, Oswald et.
show this in the case with linear attention layers without any MLPs.
In fact, a recent work ( argues that the performance of Transformers is closer to higher order methods than it is to gradient descent.
In this sense, I don't think it is clear that Transformers (with MLPs) actually encode gradient descent.
I think it would be good to rephrase that sentence in the abstract to avoid confusion.
Anyway it is not related to the central claim of the paper.
I would like to thank the authors for their responses, I have read the rebuttal of the authors and their responses to the rest of the reviewers.
I understand better now the contribution of the paper.
Considering my initial comments, I am sorry if they were somehow abstract.
I was referring to results like the ones pointed out by Reviewer tbmK and various other results that TFs can learn linear regression, ridge regression etc.
After the rebuttal I have raised my score accordingly.
Thank you for the further discussions, and I apologize for my late reply!
- Also as a minor clarification, re contradicting results of Liu et al.
23: I was referring to the optimization challenge pointed out in Liu et al.
23, e.g their Fig 3(b), and hence there is no contradiction.
- **re LSTM/attention-free networks**: I agree with the authors that the results in their work are different from the empirical study you have in this work.
What I meant is that it's inaccurate to claim "in-context learning hasn't been observed in non-Transformer models", and including the discussion you have in the response would be nice.
The current comparison in the paper wasn't clear enough to me, and including these points would be helpful.
- **re teaching sequences**: I'd like to get some further clarification please: - The authors replied that "The teaching sequences can be longer or shorter than seen during training"; could you point me to the results in the paper please?
- I understand there are results on permuted examples (in Fig 20), which are however negative, i.e.
Transformers fail to learn in this case.
Is this evidence that TF is not successfully learning with teaching sequences?
- Also, have you tested on unseen teaching sequences?
divide the set of teaching sequences into two disjoint sets, one used for training, and one used for testing; let's say each teaching sequence is at the beginning of the set of examples for both train and test.
Thank you for the detailed comments and for updating your manuscript.
I will increase my score to a 6.
In my opinion, this paper doesn't isolate the issue of nonstationary data for world model training.
I appreciate that model-based RL algorithms have a lot of moving parts, which can make it hard to isolate specific problems.
I do think that training until the validation loss stops decreasing will 100% lead to the NN overfitting early in training.
As such, the limited performance of Full-replay is likely due to primacy bias and not the nonstationary data.
A simple solution is to add one extra baseline.
A modification of the Full replay experiment where the NN is reset at each episode.
Whilst I know this is not practical for a lifelong agent, it should be feasible for the simple environments reported in the paper.
This would remove issues with primacy bias and allow the baseline to act as a sort of upper bound on model-based performance.
When talking about world models, readers will immediately think of methods like Dreamer.
My questions about Dreamer/TD-MPC arose because you refer to your method as a world model.
I'd suggest the authors move away from the term world model and instead stick to Dyna.
Also, consider adding this part of your response to the manuscript: "Existing end-to-end NN-based MBRL methods, such as Dreamer, TD-MPC, and MuZero, etc.
rely heavily on techniques to make data more stationary, for example, maintaining a large replay buffer, updating the target network once in a while, or simultaneously running multiple environments.
When these components are removed, they would fail to work.
However, when they fail we don't know how much is due to the forgetting in policy/value/model because all components are entangled and trained end-to-end in these methods." Given that you have now clearly stated your method's limitations, with regard to image-observations etc, I am OK without a direct comparison to Dreamer/TD-MPC.
I agree that comparing to dyna style methods makes a comparison of model learning easier.
This paper is exploring how LLMs can be used to infer personal information from seemingly benign comments.
As such this research could be misused by malicious actors.
The paper takes steps towards preventing this (no release of real data set), so my ethical concerns are low but an ethics review by experts might still be necessary.
The paper leverages LLMs to infer the sensitive attribute of user-written text, which might need a more in-depth ethics review.
I have read the author's response and other reviewer's reviews.
I appreciate the author's efforts and devotion to solving our concerns.
Most of my concerns are solved.
I still think it's necessary to experiment with the larger dataset to see how this method performs with the increase in data volume.
Many methods, especially for efficient training, don't show performance improvement with larger data scales.
These works have merit and contribution in terms of efficient training and fast learning in small/modest data, but it's also important to demonstrate the relationship between performance gain and data scale.
Not generalizing to a larger data scale is not a weakness, but we have to let the audience know in which cases/scales our method shines and fails.
For responses of W2, it is questionable whether an LLM can consistantly identify its own errors during iterations.
It seems likely that, due to their limited capabilities, LLMs might become entrapped in their own incorrect reasoning.
For instance, when querying several LLMs, including ChatGPT and Claude, with a very simple question, "If A>B and B<C, then what is the relationship between A and C?", I found that except for GPT-4, all others struggled with this query.
Also, I followed to the methodology described in this paper, but still found that LLMs consistently assigned a score of 1.0 to incorrect answers.
However, if I modified the prompt to "If A>B and C>B,...", it leads most LLMs to provide correct answers without any prompt engineering.
This observation suggests that LLMs may only learn language patterns rather than possessing true reasoning capabilities.
Therefore, while I agree that BoT iterations can enhance performance, it is better for the authors to acknowledge that under certain conditions, the inherent limitations of LLMs might lead to failure.
Responses of W3 are accepted.
Thank you for your detailed answers.
I now understand your contributions.
I have a few more follow-up questions.
The authors repeatedly mentioned the convergence of the nested policy gradient algorithm to the Stackelberg equilibrium as their main contribution.
However, I have a few comments on this.
In order to prove the convergence the authors rely on Theorem 3.1.
However, that heavily depends on the structure of the function such as convex in $x$, and affine in $y$.
I am wondering whether this restricts the practicality of this approach.
For example, it is well known that value function in general is not concave in the policy space.
The authors did mention sufficient conditions on reward, I am wondering for which settings those would hold.
This leads to the second question.
The proof of Lemma 1 is not correct.
The authors have used the concavity of $v$ to prove the concavity of $q$, and then the concavity of $q$ to prove the concavity of $v$.
The reviewer is also confused with the structure of the constraint for the MDP.
Is it related to the CMDP setup [1,2] (meaning the at some cumulative cost/utility has to be less than or equal to some threshold) or is it something else, like at every state a constraint is required to be satisfied?
The paper has considered $\underline{g}$ which means taking minimum across all the states.
How can one evaluate this value as one needs to evaluate the policy at every possible state?
I do not understand the statement ``Our generator model is not based on the state-action visitation distribution, but rather the history distribution".
The algorithm (Algorithm 2) needs to generate samples for the current policy $\pi_x,\pi_y$.
Hence, it needs to access any type of generator or simulator model (whether it depends on the history distribution is immaterial).
Furthermore, I don't think the gradient computed in Algorithm 1 is an unbiased estimator as claimed by the authors (if it is an infinite-dimensional).
Please see [3] on how to ensure unbiasedness in the Q-function evaluation.
Exploration-exploitation in constrained mdps.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.02189.
Provably efficient model-free constrained rl with linear function approximation.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35, pp.13303-13315.
Zhang, K., Koppel, A., Zhu, H.
Global convergence of policy gradient methods to (almost) locally optimal policies.
SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 58(6), pp.3586-3612.
It is indeed interesting to show that "it was only when these components were combined that we observed drastically improved explanations of V1, suggesting their complimentary contribution." Somehow I did not get this on my earlier reading.
Thank you also for the additional experiments which do provide some insights.
I am willing to upgrade my score, but my overall sentiment is very much aligned with that of Reviewer bbGj.
Incidentally, it would also be interesting to compare this transfer-learning + neural constraint model with purely data-driven model, e.g.
However, I suppose that data set won't have contextual modulation effects, and thus can't serve as a real neuron-in-silico.
Perhaps some Allen Institute dataset on mice could work.
From this, it is more clear that the benefit of this work comes from integrating all of the different V1 components into the same model, showing that this results in better alignment with V1 responses.
If this is the case, I think that should be made more explicit throughout the paper (ie in the listed bullet points on line 46).
I also agree with Reviewer yZMG about the Untrained models being a nice addition.
After the author responses I still find this work borderline.
I appreciate that amount of effort it takes to integrate all of these components into a single model (and that itself may be useful for the field as a new baseline, as the authors discuss).
But as currently presented, I'm not sure if that is "new" enough or if the insights gained are deep enough for a typical NeurIPS paper.
Finally, this is a bit of my personal preference in terms of wording (and thus is not influencing my score), but as neuroscientists, I wonder if we want to fall into the trap of publishing paper after paper highlighting the achievements of "SOTA" on a particular benchmark when the improvements are around +2-3%?
To me, it seems especially problematic given the limited size of the current datasets.
This is why I was highlighting the concerns about multiple-comparisons above, and suggestions to tone down the language about things like "unprecedented explanation" of V1.
Thank you for the response!
Overall, I think it addressed all (minor) concerns that I had, and I still think 7 (accept) is an appropriate score.
> We demonstrate the efficacy of this strategy with a naive proof of concept in which classification is performed by averaging predictions from the five static crops of each image Great!
I believe this technique, test-time augmentation, is not uncommon in deep learning, and makes sense for models of the visual stream.
I also think the new results with untrained networks, which achieved much lower V1 alignment than the trained ones, strengthen the results -- they suggest that all added components don’t just match superficial features of V1 processing, but lead to better (in terms of alignment to V1) training.
Other reviewers have noted the limited scope of this paper, but I don’t completely agree.
I think the contribution of this paper is significant enough for the task of building better models of the visual stream.
Thank you for your response!
**"As noted by Rogers et al, grammatical structures and syntax are directly encoded in self-attention matrices, which can in turn be decomposed into sentence diagrams or trees over multiple layers.
We see Match2 as a fundamental unit of that phenomenon, since trees are easily decomposed into combinations of pairwise matches."** I'm unfamiliar with sentence diagrams or trees over multiple layers (but I'm happy to learn).
Can you help me and refer me to the exact location of Rogers et al.
where your claim is supported (since it's a survey of over 150 studies)?
**We agree with the general standard---applicable to all papers and not just "theoretical papers"---of providing motivation and justifying assumptions and frameworks, and our paper does meet this standard.
The motivation to study transformers is given throughout the introduction of the paper, along with specific justification for our analysis framework and scaling regimes.
Understanding fundamental capabilities and limitations of transformers is of interest to researchers studying these models, and the types of separation results we proved have a long history of being presented at machine learning venues, including NeurIPS, over the past few decades.** I totally agree that you mention the above in your text!
I only had a problem with the lack of support for the tasks you considered.
I did not see references for Clark K, Khandelwal U, Levy O, Manning C.
An Analysis of BERT's Attention.
CAT-probing: A Metric-based Approach to Interpret How Pre-trained Models for Programming Language Attend Code Structure.
These works provide some motivation for the tasks, as you replied in your answer.
Did I miss it in the main text?
or some other form of explanation?
**We don't agree that "theoretical papers" are subject to a different standard for NeurIPS compared to other types of papers, as the NeurIPS Call for Papers explicitly welcomes learning theory papers without stipulating any such qualifications.** I agree with you about the standard for NeurIPS.
It was under the assumption that the task at hand was unmotivated and unrelated to practical transformers.
Might it be the case that with actual sentences embedded with word2vec, for example, a fully connected network (or other non-transformer) can learn qSA?
If not, I think this would establish your case much better because right now, it might be that fully connected networks fail because they are presented with an unnatural and unrealistic distribution.
Thanks for your response and sorry for the confusion.
The related work I would like to list is Seq2Act [1] rather than Pix2Act.
Besides, there is another work for developing pixel-based agents, named Spotlight [2].
Please clarify the relations and differences compared to them.
"Mapping natural language instructions to mobile UI action sequences." arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.03776 (2020).
[2] Li, Gang, and Yang Li.
"Spotlight: Mobile UI understanding using vision-language models with a focus." (2023).
I hope the authors will actually implement the changes described, since they all will make the paper a lot more readable and self-contained.
My final comment is that the sentence "Beyond mere intellectual curiosity, our results demonstrate the salience of finding computationally efficient methods to debias ERM" from the overall response is useful to emphasize further in the final paper.
I will maintain my current score.
Thank you for the replies and additional experiments.
Re: response to Q1 & W1, I’m still not convinced that a second train-test split is sufficient.
If there is an overlap in test set data between the first and the second train-test splits, the selected model hyperparameters based on the first test set could still work well for the second test set.
And this is not the best practice in ML research.
Thank you the authors for the rebuttal.
While I agree that fixing # of iterations can help validate HST vs other initialization, I would still like to encourage including experiments varying # of iterations in the final version since this is a non-trivial procedure.
(As I said earlier, it could be possible that other, worse, initialization turns out to be equally good if we increase the number of iterations a bit.)
Thanks to the authors for the detailed response.
You might want to modify example 2.3 so it doesn't look like a feature privacy type issue, and clarify neighboring datasets.
For the experiments, its hard to see from the plots how much is the improvement, and in how many instances.
Some other metric, e.g., %improvement, might be helpful.
A similar point has been noted as a weakness by Reviewer JWq6
I have read the other reviews, and would like to thank the authors for their responses.
With this information in mind, I will maintain my score.
Some questions have been raised regarding similarity to the Attend-and-Excite paper.
My view on this is that Attend-and-Excite is different in that it doesn't address the attribute binding problem (except indirectly by decreasing attribute neglect).
Attribute binding seems to be somewhat resistant to being solved by indirect methods, which contributes to my favorable assessment of the more direct approach taken in this paper.
Thank you for your reply.
I have understood why the sign of the coefficients can have a meaning and increased my score slightly.
(I do not oppose acceptance.) Nonetheless, I am not convinced that authors’ rebuttal resolves my main concern fully.
I believe that this conflict is due to ambiguity in the meaning of words, such as “explainable” and “inappropriate.” I interpreted explainable AI as AI that generates a chain of queries as if a human created them.
In this sense, a chain of “appropriate” queries for a tiger would be “predatory animal,” “striped fur,” “jungle,” “loneliness,” and so on.
If “a witch” is included in this chain of queries, a human would regard it as an inappropriate query.
The meaning of this “inappropriate” might be close to “inefficient” in human’s intuition.
(It might be “efficient” in terms of machine learning.) On the other hand, the authors seem to regard explainable AI as AI that generates a chain of queries that are possible for a human to interpret.
In this sense, a feature vector in a high-dimensional space is an “inappropriate” query.
However, “a witch” is an “appropriate” query for a tiger because a human can interpret its meaning.
I still believe that the former human-like AI should be a ultimate target in future research and that greedy algorithms tend to generate inappropriate queries in terms of the human-like AI.
On the other hand, inappropriate queries are never generated in terms of the latter AI because the set of queries only contains appropriate (interpretable) queries.
I hope that the meaning of “explainable” is clarified in revision to circumvent a confusion.
Some reactions: I concede that "the strength of the connection" is a matter of opinion.
In my view, relating IP and OMP because the algorithm can be made to match each other could be strengthened if the settings where the algorithms are applied can also be related to one another, and I think that's not currently present in the narrative given the very different settings where the algorithms are applied.
In addition, IP has to be restricted to a specific setting for the match to exist.
Regarding normalization, it is common to normalize the inner product in OMP by the norm of the "dictionary vector" involved (e.g., the one that is not signal-dependent).
The difference mentioned by the authors has to do with whether the dictionary is manipulated via orthogonal projection or not, a step that is not mandatory in OMP given that it is being applied to the signal anyway.
In other words, the projection does not need to be applied to both inputs of the inner product.
Regarding equation 2, the sentence before the equation mentions finding the sparse vector beta.
Thus, my suggestion would be to phrase (2) in a way that gives such a sparse vector back.
This is not a big deal since eq.
3 does give such a description, but I think my suggestion would better set (3) up.
Other points in the rebuttal are well made and I have revised my rating accordingly.
Thanks to the authors for addressing my concerns.
I’ve increased my score slightly but I think the paper remains very borderline because large changes to the framing and writing are required given that the proposed method doesn’t resolve the open problem of Mozannar et al., and the main contribution is the two-stage theory.
For missing empirical comparisons, the most relevant one that comes to mind is Okati et al., which also trains the system in two phases.
I thank the authors for their detailed response and for answering all of my questions.
I am satisfied with their justification of Definition 3.1 and additional experiments.
I also agree with their discussion on (1) vs consistency.
I am increasing my score to 8 and recommend acceptance of this paper.
I think it is well written and a good contribution to the research area.
I would also ask that the authors incoroporate these additional discussions in the final manuscript.
Dear authors, I sincerely thank you for your clear answers, especially regarding putting the significance of your work into perspective.
Your rebuttal is very clear and with good argumentations.
I also read the reviews made by colleagues, and your rebuttal to them.
I liked very much the perspective you gave about the relation between neural networks and human visual system, and how your results might be useful to improve networks in the future.
About the ethics statement: I realize that my request made no sense wrt confidentiality of the submission.
In summary, I appreciate the clarifications and I am willing to raise my score to Accept.
I would like to thank the authors for their detailed reply.
I particularly appreciated that they corrected the alpha level for multiple comparisons and provided the updated plot, and explanations regarding experimental methods.
Overall, I am satisfied with the author's response and promised edits to the paper.
Some experimental weaknesses remain - e.g.
in terms of monitor calibration hoping is great, measuring is better - but those are inherent to the online study design and cannot be expected to be resolved in a rebuttal.
My final score is "7: Accept: Technically solid paper, with high impact on at least one sub-area, or moderate-to-high impact on more than one areas, with good-to-excellent evaluation, resources, reproducibility, and no unaddressed ethical considerations." and I strongly support publication at NeurIPS.
Thank you for your efforts!
The rebuttal addresses most of my issues.
I am looking forward to the updated robustness results 2.
Regarding "Evaluation only on ImageNet".
I am afraid that just updating the conclusion is not enough.
There are multiple sections in the paper that strongly suggest that your findings scale to the detection of objects in general (e.g., L38).
It would be more honest to clarify the scope of your results early on.
To be clear, detailed proofs in the Appendix are helpful too, e.g.
for my initial comment for weakness 7 ("It also seems strange to me that each influence function is being applied to every data point, given that the influence function is essentially the effect of a data point on an estimate, but only some data points are used for some estimates.").
I am curious what it means for ICD-10 to be modeled as the "same" covariate in the source and target, if it is much noisier in the target but not the source.
Thank you for your detailed response.
I've also gone through the reviews from other reviewers.
Based on the response, other reviews, the lack of any evidence for real applications, as well as the acknowledgment of the third weakness I mentioned earlier, I am on the fence about my score.
I am lowering my score to 5 for now but will re-assess later.
Here are a few comments regarding your response: Weakness: 1.
My question was more about finite sample bounds vs asymptotic guarantees and not about the sensitivity analysis.
Regarding sensitivity analysis, what would these bounds under relaxed identification requirements look like?
It would be useful to know how the resulting sensitivity analysis performs on some real-world data.
I concur with Reviewer TqVy: the authors' responses are about plans for adding background, motivation, intuition, and real-world experiments but there is none available to assess as of now.
Overall, after revisiting the first section of the paper, I think it may require some major revamp but acceptance.
I understand and agree that these assumptions are historically common in the community.
However, the recent focus is on moving away from these.
Given that, it is important to understand the behavior of the method when these assumptions are violated, i.e., via sensitivity analysis.
Alternatively, it is important to see how the proposed method behaves on some real-data where these assumptions may not hold (as also mentioned by reviewer LaCg).
Also, while random treatment assignment is an important scenario, so is observational study where random assignment may not hold.
Thank you for your rebuttal.
I am happy with the work done to address the weakensses that I noted, and I am now convinced that StarSSE provides a meaningful improvement to ensemble performance in the transfer learning setting.
Likewise, I am happy with the way the authors have addresed my questions, and I find the results concerning ensemble diversity to be quite interesting in their own right, in particularly the fact that SSE/StarSSE produce ensembles that are more diverse than LocalDE.
I look forwards to seeing an updated version of this paper with these results (and those discussed in your response to Reviewer rBpj), and I have updated my score.
StarSSE name and connection to Local DE.__ > > Your assessment of the conceptual closeness of StarSSE and Local DE is absolutely correct, and we discuss it in the paper (lines 295-304).
We had the same doubts as you about the name but agreed on StarSSE because it was originally motivated as a modification of SSE in our project.
Generally, we are open to changing the name to, e.g., Star Ensemble or Star DE, especially if other reviewers also find the name StarSSE a bit misleading.
We would also be happy to hear your suggestions =) Even though the StarSSE algorithm no longer precisely aligns with the definition of a "snapshot," I believe that the main contribution of this paper is rooted in the experimental analysis involving "snapshot" ensembles (SSE).
Considering this perspective, it would be more beneficial to stick with the name "SSE", even if the proposed algorithm departs from the original concept of "snapshot." Thank you for sharing a behind-the-scenes :)
Dear authors, thanks a lot for the effort you put in your rebuttal, for all reviews.
On the theoretical side, concerning my comments on rigor and notation, you addressed all the points and clarified your notation, as well as the continuous-time limit formulation.
I think you managed to identify more clearly what sets apart the submitted paper from [Kingma et al, 2021], namely to extend their results to more general losses.
I see now this to be interesting, with some benefits for practitioners who seek high sample quality.
On the empirical side, I have checked the rebuttal pdf with the new results on higher resolution ImageNet data.
These new results illustrate some cases in which the proposed approach does indeed surpass or is well on par with SOTA.
Also the general comment to explain why in one experimental setting you didn't obtain the best FID is well detailed and convincing.
I am still convinced that this work could have included at least one different dataset, even an easier one such as CelebA-HQ or similar, to consolidate our understanding of the generality of the proposed technique.
Overall, I have noticed concrete improvements to the draft, and I am going to raise my score in the official review.
Again, thank you very much for your work.
I thank the reviewers for providing nice and detailed explanations and new results.
I am willing to increase my score after reading the rebuttal and considering other reviewer comments.
As another reviewer was mentioning, writing can be improved significantly to improve clarity including clear motivation behind the work.
If authors are going to address this in detail, I am ok with increasing my score.
Please make sure that the future version of the content is the correct visualization.
About Re – Question 4: Thanks for your answers.
I understand how the authors conduct visualizations.
However, I think this method could reverse general class-wise semantic patterns for each class rather than specific backdoor features in the target class.
Therefore, only based on mentioned methods, I think we may not observe clear backdoor features and they could be easily overridden by class-wise patterns.
Perhaps this is also one of the reasons for the failure of visualization.
Is it possible that the neurons where backdoor features reside are shared with clean category features?
Hi, thank you for the detailed response!
I agree that the collection/generation of the dataset for training the cappy model is novel and interesting, and the way cappy is applied is simple.
Additionally, thank you for the clarification with the contrastive data, that makes sense, and thank you for the rouge-l data.
It’s interesting it's mostly centred around .2, which suggests lots of generations with low overlap - it makes me wonder if better balancing the distribution might improve results somewhat (but this is beyond the scope of this paper).
However, I disagree that the methods in [1,8] are significantly different or fancier than what is proposed here.
As stated on page 24 of [1], their best-of-n procedure is to “Sample N summaries from a supervised baseline at temperature 0.7, score them with a reward model, and take the summary with the highest score”.
This is very similar to Cappy (argmax based on an answer rating module), but using slightly different decoding strategies, and using a reward model instead of Cappy.
There are publicly available datasets for training reward models (e.g.
and I think it is reasonable to compare a model trained using the Cappy data to models trained using these datasets - my guess is cappy would do better since it is focussed on correctness instead of helpfulness/harmfulness, but since the method is so close to prior best-of-n work, I think it is a necessary comparison.
In my personal opinion, this is why I lean still reject and am not updating my score, but if other reviewers and AC are satisfied the method is novel enough, and the comparisons are rigorous enough, I think the other aspects of the work are solid and the empirical results certainly still useful for the community.
Some of my concerns have been addressed.
But after reading other reviews as well, some additional questions pop up.
Here are some follow-ups: -It would be much better off if you can pull some results from [10] and compare them with yours in the current submission.
It seems to be a very recent and close counterpart (goal-conditioned control in Minecraft), and these numbers will help readers understand how open-world control can be improved with your techniques, especially with modern neural network architectures.
Some additional discussions might be needed as well.
-It's interesting to know you think of long-term tasks with steve-1, we may have to use visual instruction instead.
I suppose specifying a long-term task with text should be simpler, no?
Also, what do you think is the bottleneck of steve-1 solving long-term tasks?
I understand you've made it clear on the capacity of steve-1, which is mostly about short-term but I'm sure some analysis & prospect about solving long-term goals (this could be relevant to the prompt-chaining experiments in the main paper as well) in the limitation section should be of interest to reviewers and potential future readers.
-I've read other reviews and I agree with Reviewer 7QfK that saying "STEVE-1 can follow nearly any short-horizon open-ended text and visual task in Minecraft" is improper given the current state of evaluation.
I don't even think "a wide range of tasks" seems to be appropriate either.
Please avoid using vague and non-academic terms.
Thank you for the additional detailed explanations.
If the authors include their revised figures and additional details in the text, I think the paper will be greatly strengthened.
I have read the other reviews and rebuttals, in particular the concerns raised by reviewer YFQD.
Including the authors responses to clarify the application-driven nature of their work (vs new theory in ML) and to clarify some technical details on retinal prostheses, would make the paper much better, and I would raise my score to a 6.
Many thanks for the clarification.
Please include that in the revised version in the related work section or discussion.
This work is a nice combination of available methodologies toward more realistic visual neuroprosthetics.
The major contribution is on the calibration side since humans/animals cannot be probed in the same manner as deep learning models (no 'gradient', limited numbers of queries).
Thus, such calibration techniques are worth studying considering their potential great future impact when other technologies of neuroprosthetics became mature enough.
I will keep the current rating but raise my confidence from 3 to 5.
Thank you for the interesting experiments and thorough answers to my feedback.
The new data seems to support the claims of the paper.
I acknowledge that testing your hypotheses using large scale real world data is challenging because controlling the attributes existing in the training data becomes more difficult.
I found the experiment on CelebA an important step towards that direction and potential future work may extend your work to this direction.
Additionally, the exploration of various diffusion architectures provide valuable insights of the learning dynamics and that the observations are not specific only to the initial model architecture selected in the paper.
In my opinion, these experiments, rewriting the concluding paragraph, and improving the presentation quality of figures improve the submission significantly.
I am happy to update my score accordingly.
I would like to thank the authors for the detailed response and the additional experiments.
I will respond here to their general comments and to their specific response to my original comment over there.
First, I would like some further clarification for Figure R4.
It seems from the plot that the advantage in performance lies with the U-Net with Global Attention, not the Transformer.
In fact it's not clear to me (at least from this plot) that the Transformer has a substantial advantage over the vanilla U-Net outside of the the training data (it does train faster so I guess there is that).
Maybe a better way to plot this is to have one plot per condition (blue, pink and red) and for each of these plot the three models together.
For a final version you may need to run more seeds if the results do not show a clear effect (which can admittedly be a bit subjective even if using things like t-tests and the like).
I like the plots in Figure R3, but the caption needs be clearer, or in the case of the bottom panel of b) actually there, as it doesn't even say what those three colours stand for.
While I agree that the measure you propose is more consistent with accuracy, I would still like to see the plots with cross entropy.
My insistence is based on an analogous reasoning found in [1].
Slightly different topic, but I think the reasoning applies here as well.
[1] Schaeffer, R., Miranda, B., & Koyejo, S.
Are emergent abilities of Large Language Models a mirage?.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.15004.
After seeing the response from the authors, many of my concerns remain unaddressed.
Given that the rest of the reviewers had a higher opinion of the work I will raise my rating to borderline, but I still believe that the experimental comparisons are incomplete, and that the benefit of the proposed approach within the context of quantum chemistry compared to existing approaches is unclear.
I do think the paper is interesting and has potential, but as is I don't think the paper makes a clear enough case for an improvement relative to the state of the art.
Thank you for providing detailed answers to my questions.
There are no major disagreements left, and I would be glad to see the paper accepted at the conference as it addresses an interesting problem field with state-of-the-art models and is technically solid.
As remark on the limitations discussion: As the paper appears sound, a more detailed discussion of existing limitations would be appreciated and highly beneficial to guide future research.
A lack of description of limitations in the initial paper was also mentioned by reviewer zf5t and adding "small note" in the conclusion (reply to my review) or increasing the "part a little since the review." (response to reviewer zf5t) is not satisfactory.
While I appreciate the additional runtime results, they also show that the training time is > x30 longer, and the latency of transformer models is still 2x to 5x longer than classical models.
This can be openly discussed as not a limitation of this work but rather of transformers in general.
Hence, discussing this limitation openly would encourage future work to develop more efficient and still accurate models.
This also touches on fairness questions with regard to access to computational resources.
I trust that the authors integrate a thorough discussion on limitations in the final camera-ready version.
> We thank the reviewer for the suggestion.
We think, however, that given that all the models are compared on the same setups and the same unobserved years for each station, the improvement of one model should be interpretable with respect to the others.
However, if the reviewer means that normalizing would be helpful in order to compare the results across stations as well, we agree that it is a valid point.
Yet, since the different stations have different patterns, we believe it is better to compare models for each station and not compare between stations, so that we keep in mind the order of magnitude of the values which can differ greatly from one station to another.
> Indeed, MAPE could be a good choice, but unfortunately it is problematic in our cases given that we are also considering nights through our sliding window training process, which involves ground truth values of 0, which cannot be handled by the MAPE by definition.
It seems that reviewer and the authors have a different view on reporting numbers in regression tasks.
For the reviewer, it is more meaningful to report a relative performance/improvement of a predictor rather than the absolute scale.
This enables better judgment for individual stations, but also across the stations.
This ties into the desire for a normalization/standardization of the scales as well as the the request to report the MAPE.
While the later is challenging for small values, one can use typical numerical tricks like dividing by a very small epsilon.
> The goal of the radar plots on Fig 4 is to compare the three models appearing on them, regarding each of the metrics we present.
This, in our opinion, is easily doable using the plots.
What would be the advantage of showing the minimum value 0?
Not including a zero value for a bounded range allows to visually overly enhance improvements.
> However, we feel that we wanted to build an architecture that only uses “basic” building blocks [...].
Furthermore, since we are not doing directly video prediction (although it would have been possible to predict the context as an auxiliary target, but we chose not to at first), we do not think fourier layers were necessarily first in line among all recent methods to improve our forecasting performance.
The reviewer acknowledged the reasoning of the author for making a more focused study on basic building blocks.
Nevertheless, Fourier layers have shown better predictive performance compared to standard blocks for networks such as ForecastNet.
The authors may consider looking at them in the future.
> We apply CrossViViT to a real-world problem of forecasting solar-irradiance which can be useful for mitigating climate change by encouraging the use of solar energy.
We also mentioned in the introduction that CrossViViT can in principle be used to forecast any other physical variables.
The reviewer would like to point out that the authors have only demonstrated a model with better predictive performance.
Yet, what would it take to get this model in production?
Can the possible effects for the climate be quantified?
Is there a cost-use breakeven point?
It would be meaningful to at least roughly reason about these or related aspects.
> When making the plots, we tried to make sure that they were color-blind friendly as one of our co-authors is color-blind as well (and they made the plots).
Can you give suggestions of colors we can use instead?
There are several dedicated color palettes, e.g.
to be found here: To the personal taste of the reviewer Tol Muted works well, but others will probably also do.
All other points: thanks you for incorporating them in the manuscript.
> As the reviewer can see, it only slightly decreases the absolute performance of all models but comparatively, CrossViViT still outperforms the baselines.
While we agree that this demonstrates the performance in an operational setting, we believe it would fit better in the appendix rather than the main text.
Ok > We are not sure we understand what the reviewer means.
What type of details are missing?
Some details that I have asked for in the other questions.
> We presented all inputs in the method section and the type of data in the satellite data and time series section.
Other details are indeed in the appendix.
If you think more details are missing, we will be happy to add them in the appendix.
I think the appendix contains a good amount of information.
>The table below highlights all the inference and training metrics for all models (Note that all the times presented there are for one GPU) Ok The authors have answered my questions and solved my doubts.
I increased my rating accordingly.
> What type of details are missing?
The ones that lead to the questions above.
> The Multi Quantile version[...] is not the main contribution of the work, so we had to keep the results and comparison light in this regard.
Multi Quantile is either a contribution, or it is not.
Since you put it second in the list of contributions, it appears to be one.
It would help if you placed this work with respect to the relevant literature and compared its performance with relevant approaches.
If no existing work applies, explain why.
> we do evaluate its median prediction [...] and its ability to include the observed true values.
None of that measures the uncertainty estimation quality, the module's main goal.
> Do you have suggestions for more things we can include?
Here is a non-exhaustive list of relevant work.
Explain the relation of your work with them, and look at how they evaluate the quality of the uncertainty estimation.
Simple and scalable predictive uncertainty estimation using deep ensembles.
Turkoglu etal FiLM-ensemble: Probabilistic deep learning via featurewise linear modulation.
Neurips, 2022 Gal etal Dropout as a Bayesian approximation: Representing model uncertainty in deep learning.
ICLR 2016 > CrossViViT without RoPE Reading the other rebuttal, I see that you replaced RoPE it with "a learned PE".
Can you give details about this baseline?
How do you learn the positional encoding, is it a function?
Why not use a standard Fourrier-based encoding?
The other explanation does clarify my understanding of token mixing.
The authors should make sure to improve the clarity of the text to reflect these non-trivial details.
I would be inclined to increase my rating if the RoPE experiment turned out to be valid, and if the authors can correctly situate and evaluate their uncertainty prediction module (or explain convincingly why they cannot).
Thanks for replysing my questions,.
My quettions about the theory are totally answered and clear.
However, it still seems that the scope of application is limited compared to the complexity of the theory.
If you demonstrate the importance of the theory in the current problem setting, it would be better to explain specific examples of the problem setting used in the theory analysis, as well as confirm the findings from the theory for deep neural networks.
For example, after a linear approximation like NTK, I would like to know if your setting for shortcut learning could occur in real world image data.
Therefore, we would like to keep the score as it is now.
Thank you for the thorough explanation of the interpretation of the queries, it helped me much better to understand what is being measured here.
While I still believe on a high level that there is room for improvement in the evaluation of these types of methods, I will concede that it is extremely nontrivial, making it the task of future work rather than this particular paper.
As you highlight, there are still significant contributions to this work.
The proposals to present more detailed individual results in the appendix and highlight the interpretation in the text I believe also make the work much more transparent to the reader.
I am raising my rating from 6 to 7, as my primary concerns of runtime and significance have been adequately addressed.
While I feel this is valuable work that should be shared with the community, I limit my score to Accept because of the complications in the evaluation at the individual level.
Specifically, I am unconfident in the similarity comparisons, which are core to retreival quality.
However, I would like to thank the authors once again for the thoughtful discussion in "Further discussion of statistical significance".
Before this comment I was leaning towards lowering my rating, but have instead decided to raise it.
Thank you for the kind and detailed explanation.
I have a few more questions I would like to ask: 1.
Regarding your statement, "As we consider more combinations of attributes, achieving proportional representation becomes more difficult," I am curious if this means that in future work, achieving perfect balance will be impossible, or if it is something that you will continue to strive for.
Concerning "Moreover, the groups for which we aim to ensure representation can be encoded in the set of representation statistics," I wonder if these representative groups, which are ultimately based on subjective human judgment, can truly reflect fair representation.
I thank the authors for the detailed response.
I have raised my score in response to the additional empirical results and clarifications and will outline my remaining concerns below.
--- **Re Weakness 1**: ...
more challenging datasets ...
Thank you for providing these additional results.
I believe that they are helpful and strengthen the empirical evaluation presented in the paper.
quantitative results for models fine-tuned without constraints ...
> We refer to Figure (2b) in the paper which in fact provides a quantitative baseline for models fine-tuned without constraints, both as generated samples and its FID score.
Thank you for pointing out the FID scores in the figure captions.
They do indeed provide the quantitative results I was referring to.
Could you briefly touch on why they are so much higher than the results reported in other works (e.g.
3.17 in [1] for unconditional image generation on CIFAR-10)?
> Regarding the second point, we believe there is no meaningful metric of comparing a constrained unconditional model to existing conditional models since the conditional model can sample from any class if it is conditioned to do so.
The suggested approach of using a conditional model with balanced conditioning information at inference time is interesting.
However, we were unable to find any existing baselines using the suggested approach.
Hence, we believe implementing such a novel approach to use as a baseline is beyond the scope of this paper.
I am not sure I understand this point.
Conditioning diffusion models via classifier-free guidance [2] is a standard approach in image diffusion models, including the latent diffusion model [3] that I assume was used for the additional ImageNet results.
Since this approach enables the specification of arbitrary class labels at inference time, it should be straightforward to sample them uniformly before sample generation.
Since all class labels need to be known at training time to specify the KL divergence-constrained optimization problem (U-KL), it seems reasonable to compare the method to other approaches that use class labels to train conditional diffusion models that allow us to flexibly constrain the sample generation process.
The reasoning behind this question is to better understand the potential practical impact the proposed approach, compared to simply adapting existing diffusion model techniques to the experimental settings investigated in the manuscript.
**Re Questions 1-3**: I appreciate the detailed response and the primal/dual batch size sensitivity study.
In addition to the conceptual considerations provided in response to Question 1 of Reviewer EijC, I think it would be helpful to add an actual empirical comparison of the computational cost of standard and dual training approaches in the paper.
--- ### References [1] Ho, Jonathan, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel.
"Denoising diffusion probabilistic models." Advances in neural information processing systems 33 (2020): 6840-6851.
[2] Ho, Jonathan, and Tim Salimans.
"Classifier-Free Diffusion Guidance." NeurIPS 2021 Workshop on Deep Generative Models and Downstream Applications.
[3] Rombach, Robin, et al.
"High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models." Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition.
I must have misinterpreted that g is not a learned transformation in the latent space as the authors correctly point out that this was addressed in the original submission.
It was a bit unclear to me so cleaning that up for broadest access to all readers may help.
I share the thought now of another reviewer that the impact is somewhat limited by the requirement that the ground truth group action must be known.
However, the authors appropriately point out that this is the current state of this niche area of research and cite other methods (that they already compared in the paper) also requiring ground truth action in the original data space.
As responded to another reviewer, this addresses my main question: "We agree that requiring ground truth is a limitation, as we discuss in the paper.
However, we would also like to point out that most of the existing works that is applied to model latent group actions, regardless of addressing the problem in terms of group actions or not, are also supervised.
This includes both of our comparison models for the two 3D rendered datasets"
Thank you for your response and for conducting the extra experiments.
I believe the experiments on Prop 4.3.
and latent swapping very fascinating, and can strengthen the paper.
The experiments demonstrate that the autoencoder is learning some principled representation of what should and should not be invariant.
I will raise my score, and I hope that these experiments are included in a revised version of the paper.
Dear authors, I have decided to change my score to an accept after our discussion.
I do think you should improve the motivation and explanation of the method for the camera-ready submission, but I believe this to be feasible within the given timeframe.
It is important, I believe, to really highlight the motivation for the RNC loss in the paper.
It is clear from your rebuttal and explanations here, but as a reader it is not immediately clear why you have applied the RNC loss and why it would improve performance so much while reading the paper.
I thank the authors for clarifying my question and appreciate their effort.
Nevertheless, my concerns about the relevance of the contribution, as listed in the weaknesses section, still stand, hence I leave my mark to 4.
The extension of (Soudry et al, '18) and other previous works to more general multiclass losses is surely interesting, but, in my opinion, it would be better suited as a technical paper in a dedicated journal.
As an example, I find it difficult to appreciate the technical contributions of the lemmas mentioned in the author's reply (4.1, which seems to stem from a simple derivation of the gradient, and 4.2, a simple consequence of the definition of the trace) and I suspect that the broad audience of NeurIPS would too.
Thanks for your detailed response.
It seems that other reviewers also concern about the comparison and the reliance on GPT-4.
I appreciate authors' additional results, addressing some of concerns regarding the comparison.
In addition, I still think the source of performance improvement over human demonstration is unclear.
Specifically, I am not convinced that demonstrations generated by GPT-4 are more effective than that of human.
You mentioned 'basic task formats'.
However, human can also provide demonstrations that conform to the task format.
The advantage of proposed method is that it does not require human cost, but requiring a high-quality LLM for annotation.
Thank you for detailed responses to all the questions, in particular, the clarifications for definition 2 and theorem 1 were helpful.
Regarding my other concerns, I understand that the target samples are included in the term $\kappa$.
However, my broader question is whether interesting results can come out of explicitly modeling the source data as opposed to starting from a pre-trained solution $w_0$.
For example, if you look at previous work on transfer learning, for example Ben-David et al.
[1], the generalization bounds explicitly model the source distributions which leads to defining a distance between tasks (the $H \Delta H$ divergence).
Modeling the source data, can you tell *how* to arrive at a good initialization $w_0$.
The existing setup is certainly interesting but relates directly to model initialization than to a typical theoretical setup for transfer learning.
I will stay at my current score since I do not see immediate connections to explain or answer questions for deep networks (network don't always operate in the linear regime with NTKs).
However, I find the lens of universality to be different from prior theoretical work on transfer learning and support the acceptance of this work.
[1] Ben-David, Shai, et al.
"A theory of learning from different domains." Machine learning 79 (2010): 151-175.
I appreciate the authors' response.
I would encourage the authors to at least add a remark after Theorem 1 clarifying the gap between Theorem 1 and the main claims of the advantage of the proposed method (which are evaluated empirically).
This will help avoid potential confusions by readers like myself.
Overall I think this is a solid paper worth publication at NeurIPS.
And this assessment has already been reflected by my previous rating.
Thank you for the clarification.
I encourage the authors to make that connection with prior work clear in the paper (i.e.
that the key observation is that stochastic amortization can tolerate more noise than previous methods assumed).
I believe, already, a lot of the empirical tests in the current is aimed at studying how much noise can be tolerated.
Because you have committed to a more direct comparison with prior work, and have shown empirical tests of prior baselines, I will raise my score accordingly.
I’d like to thank the authors for their very thorough response and comprehensive additional experiments, as well as apologize for not responding sooner.
Thank you for performing a more thorough hyperparameter sweep, and for pointing out the difference in minigrid block budgets from prior work.
After looking through JaxUED and Robust PLR again, I agree with the authors that UED is comparable to DR in the 50 and 60 block setting.
That being said, I think the authors should also experiment in the more challenging 25 block setting where UED methods are most effective.
Regardless, these new results provide convincing evidence that the proposed method is better than the SOTA in at least some settings.
Than you also for running the requested ablations so quickly.
The results seem inconsistent across hyperparameters and environments, but it does appear that SFL is generally better, and both the sampling and prioritization metrics positively impact performance.
My main concern was that there seemed to be strong evidence that the evaluations in the paper were not fair.
With these extensive new results and changes, I believe the contribution of this work is convincing, and I hope the authors will incorporate these new results in their paper as promised.
I will raise my score to a 7.
Dear Authors, Thanks for your detailed response and additional experiments.
**Different values of the sampling ratio**: Thanks for producing these results.
In the final manuscript, I would be interested in seeing other possible features of the environment which are common in levels sampled with SFL **Average vs top-k learnability in UED**: This result is interesting.
I would consider to appropriately insert it in the appendix of the final version of the paper.
**Justification for SFL & Different Definitions of Learnability**: Thanks for providing additional examples of learnability.
This addresses the issues I raised.
Given the above discussion, I believe most of the issues I raised were appropriately addressed by the authors.
I will raise my score accordingly.
Thanks again for the detailed answers and the additional experiments, and good luck with the paper
I thank the authors for their detailed rebuttal effort.
Based on the positive comparison to CSGM and some results on new datasets shown in the PDF attached to the rebuttal, I am willing to bump my rating up from 4 to 5.
I find the work the authors put into their rebuttal quite respectable.
I still think the total contribution is relatively low for NeurIPS: the paper is an application of a sequence-level autoregressive approach and a diffusion model, in my eyes a combination of existing approaches applied to the MRI domain.
I think it is a perfectly acceptable paper for a more domain-specific conference.
As I've said before, I would've also liked to see how direct prediction from sequence-level (not voxel-level) autoregression with a simple neural network would have fared compared to the diffusion approach, but that is perhaps for another work, and would not significantly affect the contribution.
I remain unsure whether 4/3 is an intrinsic property of polarity of whether it is an artifact of the proof - I would need to spend more time with the paper, which unfortunately we are short on.
I am satisfied with the new figures the authors have provided to address [Weakness 2] and I have updated my score to reflect this.
On question 1: If you look at Figure 1 it seems as though there is a positive correlation.
I was asking what you would expect to happen if the x-axis is expanded to 0-0.5 and populated with additional points in those unseen regimes.
Thank you for addressing my concerns and clarifying the contribution of this work.
I understand that the primary contribution at the perspective of neuroscience.
To be honest, I'm not much familiar with neuroscience and still not sure on how significant contribution this paper has made.
Considering the answer and evaluation from other reviewers, I would like to increase my final score to 5 but decrease the confidence to 2.
The authors answer most of my questions.
I especially appreciate the effort of putting in more visualization.
But the concern "It is still unclear why and in what situation the proposed method is better than the SOTA methods" is still not answered well.
I understand the experimental results are better than the SOTA but still not clear how the proposed method could gain significant improvement.
If it is due to the use of joint computation of multi-dimensional attention, the case study should compare the difference(either visualization or some deep explanation of results) of different approaches that use attention as well.
Thank you for responding thoughtfully to my concerns.
Overall my main concerns have been addressed so I shall update my score accordingly.
> If we understand your suggestion correctly, it relates to reporting within-dataset performance.
Yes that is correct, thank you for including these.
Regarding the new Table 7: - Some of the STD values seem very large, for example the RMSE STD is around ten times larger than the mean.
Is this a typo or just a feature of the dataset?
- For the MAE values in "Performance evaluation on PURE", it seems as though Physnet should be bolded since it has 2.78, vs 2.83 which is currently in bold.
Your explanation has mostly addressed my concerns.
I hope you can incorporate some of the above content into the revised paper, such as the contributions and impact to the community, comparisons with other methods based on LLMs for tool calling, and some grammar issues.
However, since there are still some experimental phenomena whose causes have not been fully explained, I suggest the author conduct a more in-depth analysis and investigation.
Therefore, I have decided to keep my scores.
I appreciate the clarification about why Toolformer would not be an appropriate direct comparison.
A few questions and concerns remain, however.
First, I'm not sure I was totally clear about question (2) -- I am asking for some kind of a t-test to compare the performance of different models.
Are the improvements from Gorilla statistically significant (i.e.
This is not a question of out-of-domain generalization, but of the robustness of the apparent improvement.
For question (3) -- while I understand that constraints on space make including additional examples difficult, I would recommend at least a supplemental table in which the counts of different error types (e.g.
"model name hallucination" or "formatting hallucination" as you present) are presented.
Thank you for the detailed responses.
Many of questions were responded to and clarified and I'm more confident in my evaluation.
I would like to note that my main concern which is the synthetic nature of the experiments remains unanswered.
I appreciate the authors attempt to provide additional experimental results in the short rebuttal time.
However, using English-words as tokens does not make it "in-distribution" as these n-grams are completely out-of-distribution compared to the training data of the model.
If anything, using common full-word tokens as inputs induce a strong prior as encoded in their embeddings and is thus expected to deteriorate the performance.
It is not trivial to design a similar testbed that does simulate an in-distribution task, but is a pursuit that if achieved will be most beneficial.
Nevertheless, even this intermediate step of investigating the compositional abilities of model in a synthetic controlled setting is interesting and enriches our knowledge about the properties of transformer based language models.
I thus wish to thank the authors for the answers, and choose to keep my score as is.
Thanks for the response and clarifications.
Using ideas like "a few demonstrations" is just not formal.
And dressing this up as a formal hypothesis just seems to be misdirection when the experiments just choose some arbitrary number out of thin air.
This is honestly a small part of the paper, and does not majorly impact my opinion, but it is bad practice.
Thanks for the discussion here.
I agree that it is a tricky issue for sure, but I am still not totally convinced that these must be the ways to decompose the tasks or that it is conclusive that the model is actually learning them in the way presented.
It is still not clear to me why the new task definitions are necessary.
Thanks again for the clarification.
Indeed adding the hints that get closer to showing how to do composition is maybe helpful.
I guess my point was that maybe these synthetic tasks are missing the diversity of natural data that may have more examples of *how* to do composition in a general sense.
And just training on narrow subtasks and expecting composition to arise seems unrealistic (and also not being suggested by people in the literature as being something that would occur, to my knowledge) 5.
Thanks for these extra experiments and investigation.
This does seem to be better evidence that the tokenization is not a major issue.
I will increase my score to a 4 to reflect the partial resolution of some of the issues I raised, but I think the remaining issues still leave the paper below the bar for acceptance in my mind, especially with several substantial changes to the paper being suggested.
I would like to thank the authors for their detailed response.
However, I still believe that a fair comparison of memory and computational complexity should include the number of steps required to achieve a certain level of accuracy.
Currently, when a practitioner has a system with limited memory, they often use activation checkpointing, a technique used to manage memory consumption in large language models (LLMs) during training.
Instead of storing all intermediate activations for backpropagation, only a subset of activations is saved at "checkpoints." The rest of the activations are recomputed as needed during the backward pass.
This approach reduces memory usage significantly at the cost of increased computation time.
If QZO-FF requires three perturbations and converges much more slowly, say five times slower to achieve same accuracy, it might not be beneficial to use it.
Can you add convergence curves for BP and QZO-FF or numbers of iterations required to reach the reported accuracy?
If so I'll consider raising my score.
Thanks for the authors' response!
Some of my concerns haven't been addressed so I keep my score.
**The memory cost of (BP, LP, fp16)** Will the authors provide the memory cost of (BP, LP, fp16)?
How will the author modify their statements?
**Ablation study for Section 4.1** Why did the author only provide an ablation study in Section 4.2 and not include one in Section 4.1?
**QZO-FF for larger models** The authors haven't conducted experiments on models larger than 80M so I think the concept of "pre-trained models" in the abstract (line 1) and the introduction (line 20) is overclaimed.
